COURSE CATALOG 2025–26
Contents
Mission Statement
Letter from the Staff
1 Welcome to Berkeley High School
2 Support & Guidance
Counselor Statement
General Information about College Admissions
Keeping Your Options Open
Education Options After High School
College Entrance Tests
3 Policies
Schedule Changes
Withdrawal Policy
Course Credit
Textbook Policies
Grading Procedures
4 Additional Credits
English Learner Classification and Placement
6 Mathematics Placement
Science Placement
World Language Placement
7 PE Waivers
Proctors
BHS Student Technology Services
E-Tree
8 Interscholastic Athletic Program
9 Berkeley High School Graduation
& UC/CSU Entrance Requirements
10 Adult School
11 Career & College Readiness
17 Universal 9th Grade
Learning communities
20 Academic Choice (AC)
28 Arts & Humanities Academy (AHA)
33 Academy of Medicine & Public Service (AMPS)
38 Berkeley International High School (BIHS)
46 Communication Arts & Sciences (CAS)
51 Berkeley Independent Study (BIS)
54 Berkeley Technology Academy (BTA)
Depar tments
57 African American Studies
60 CTE Technology: Robotics, Engineering & Computer Science
63 Inclusive Education
64 Mathematics
6 7 Multilingual Program
71 Physical Education
73 Science
78 Visual and Performing Art
86 World Language
90 Additional Elective Courses
92 Activities & Clubs
93 School Director y
Campus Map (Inside Front Cover)
The front cover image is a mural created by
BHS students that is currently in the BHS G/H
Breezeway. Below is a description of the mural
from its creators.
On February 7th of 2024, while using the girls’
bathroom, trans 16 year old Nex Benedict was
mocked by a group of girls. In response, Nex tossed
water from his water bottle at the girls and was
violently beaten. Despite the severity of the incident,
their Oklahoma public school did not contact
the police, so Nex’s family did. He was sent to the
emergency room by his school “as a precaution” and
questioned by the police but was eventually sent
home.The next day, February 8th, Nex collapsed
as he was leaving his home. He was rushed back to
the hospital, where he was pronounced dead. On
March 17th, it was determined that Nex’s cause
of death was suicide by drug overdose. Nex could
have been anyone you know, any trans teenager in
America pushed to leave our world by a community
that does not love them. As a collaborative effort
between BHS’ mural club and AGES (the Alliance
of Gender Expansive Students), this mural was
created to remind our community to stand behind its
transgender students and youth, and to let the world
know that Nex Benedict’s story will not be forgotten.
Berkeley High School Mission Statement
It is our mission
to educate and inspire all students
in a safe, respectful and supportive
environment.
to achieve this mission, we will
Expect maximum achievement
from each student
Maintain high expectations for both
students and ourselves
Teach students to think critically,
creatively and analytically
Respect each member of the
community as an individual
Model and expect ethical and
responsible behavior
Provide a school structure which
is open and accessible
Notification of Non-Discrimination Policy
The Berkeley Unified School District is committed to providing equal
opportunity for all individuals in district programs and activities.
Accordingly, BUSD programs and activities shall be free from dis-
crimination, harassment, intimidation and bullying based on actual
or perceived ancestry, age, color, disability, gender, gender identity,
gender expression; nationality, race or ethnicity, religion, sex, sexual
orientation, or association with a person or group with one or more
of these actual or perceived characteristics. The Board shall promote
programs which ensure that discriminatory practices are eliminated
in all district activities. Board Policy 0410, Board Policy 1311, Board
Policy 4030, Board Policy 5145.3, Board Policy 5145.7)
The Board also prohibits retaliation against any district employee or
job applicant who complains, testifies or in any way participates in
the district’s complaint procedures instituted pursuant to this policy.
(Board Policy 4030)
Complaint forms are available at school sites, on the district webpage
at www.berkeleyschools.net/complaints. For inquiries or concerns
regarding BUSD nondiscrimination policy 5145.3 or the filling of
discrimination complaints please contact:
Jasmina Viteskic
Compliance Officer and Title IX Coordinator
2020 Bonar Street, Room 116
Berkeley, CA 94702
Phone: 510-486-9338
Email: nondiscrimination@berkeley.net
A Message to Students and Parents~
Berkeley High School strives to provide all students with:
•
•
•
•
•
•
Teachers who care about students
A safe environment
Education for the present and the future
Academic challenges in an innovative and vibrant
atmosphere
An outstanding college-placement record
A place for learning about life and living
Examples of the experiences available to BHS students:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
Solving complicated math problems
Mastering another language
Playing a competitive interscholastic sport
Dancing on the Berkeley Community Theater stage
or playing music in a Jazz Band or Orchestra
Researching current issues
Exploring the mysteries of science
Being part of social change
We believe that the education we offer is the foundation upon
which our students can build their dreams for the future.
Sincerely,
The Berkeley High School Staff
Declaración de la Política de No Discriminación
Berkeley Unified School District está comprometido a ofrecer una
oportunidad igualitaria para todos los individuos en los programas y
actividades del distrito. Por consiguiente, los programas y actividades
en BUSD deben ser libres de discriminación, acoso, intimidación
y “bullying” debido a su ascendencia actual o aparente, edad, dis-
capacidad, género, identidad, expresión de género, nacionalidad,
raza o etnia, religión, sexo, orientación sexual, o asociación con una
persona o grupo con una o más de estas características actuales o
aparentes. El Board (Mesa Directiva de Educación) debe de promover
programas que aseguren que los métodos discriminatorios están
eliminados de todas las actividades en el distrito. Board Policy 0410,
Board Policy 1311, Board Policy 4030, Board Policy 5145.3, Board
Policy 5145.7)
El Board también prohíbe represalias en contra de cualquier
empleado del distrito o solicitante de empleo que denuncie, atestigüe
o de cualquier forma participe en los procedimientos de denuncia del
distrito instituidos conforme a esta política. (Board Policy 4030)
Los formularios para denuncias se encuentran disponibles en los
planteles escolares y en la página web del distrito en www.berke-
leyschools.net/complaints. Para consultas o preocupaciones referen-
tes a la política de no discriminación de BUSD 5145.3 o para someter
una denuncia de discriminación por favor comuníquese con:
Jasmina Viteskic
Compliance Officer and Title IX Coordinator
2020 Bonar Street, Room 116
Berkeley, CA 94702
Phone: 510-486-9338
Email: nondiscrimination@berkeley.net
overview
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
1
Welcome to
Berkeley High School
Berkeley High School has a long history of embracing a broad spectrum of people and ideas.
The programs offered to students both challenge and support them to reach high levels of
academic achievement while preparing each graduate to be successful in college, career, and
life. Starting in the 2018–19 school year, all freshmen took part in the Universal 9th Grade
Program. Through the Universal 9th Grade model, all students will have access to academi-
cally rigorous and engaging content through a structured and supportive environment that
honors the whole student. Following the Berkeley High lottery process, students can select
from five quality academic programs during the Spring of their freshman year that inspire
and cultivate the gifts, talents, and passions of its students. Students also have the option of
an off-campus Independent Study program.
Students, during the Spring of their freshman year, request
placement into one of our five rigorous, college preparatory
academic learning communities through the BHS lottery
process. Three of our communities (AHA, AMPS, and
CAS) are small schools of 180 students. Two of our commu-
nities (AC and BIHS) are larger programs of 600–900.
Students enrolled in any one of our learning communi-
ties— Academic Choice (AC), Arts and Humanities
Academy (AHA), Academy of Medicine and Public
Service (AMPS), Berkeley International High School
(BIHS) and Communication Arts and
Sciences (CAS)—share a core group of teachers. All of
the communities satisfy the a–g requirements for the Uni-
versity of California. All offer some AP or IB classes. The
smaller learning communities also offer opportunities for
students to do internships, and senior projects in a specific
college and career pathway. Students fulfill each learn-
ing community’s academic requirements. Other courses
students have room for in their schedule are taken from
the individual departments: African American Studies,
Performing and Visual Arts, Physical Education, World
Language, and Career Technical Education.
In Spring, at the same time they select classes, students have
the opportunity to rank and submit their learning commu-
nity preferences. A lottery held during the spring semester
(following diversity guidelines set by the Berkeley Unified
School District) determines the learning community to
which the student will be assigned.
Information on lottery guidelines may be found on the BHS
website under “Documents”. Each community is designed
to give students the content knowledge, skills, and diverse
learning experience to be successfully prepared for a four-
year university or college.
Students also have the option of Berkeley Independent
Study (BIS). BIS offers an academic option to the traditional
classroom environment for students who prefer the flexibility
and individualized format of independent study. Contact BIS
at bis@berkeley.net or 644-6159 for more information.
Every choice provides an opportunity to get the most out
of one’s high school education. The information in this first
section of the catalog is very important. Be sure to review
the following information before making final course
selections:
▸
▸
BHS Graduation Requirements (see chart, page 9)
College Entrance Requirements (see chart, page 9)
Courses marked with a star are pending School
Board approval. Courses with a (P) next to them have
received approval from the University of California
Office of the President (UCOP) and can be used to
apply for a 4 year college.
Courses with a (P-Pending) next to them are awaiting
approval from UCOP and/or the BUSD Board of
Education.
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
Support & Guidance
High School Guidance
Counselor Statement
Counseling at Berkeley High is designed to support the
whole student. Services include academic planning, col-
lege and career preparation, mental health and crisis
counseling, intervention, and student advocating. The
goal of the counseling department is to help students
achieve success in high school and beyond.
Course Registration
It is important that students give us accurate information
regarding the courses they would like to take. Counselors
meet with students in the spring to begin the course regis-
tration process for the following school year. Registration
procedures, BHS graduation requirements, and college
admissions eligibility requirements are reviewed at this
time. Students are provided with an unofficial copy of
their transcript and current course offerings.
Berkeley High School recommends students take
no more than two Advanced Placement or Honors
courses per year. Students will not be allowed
to drop ap/ib classes—choose wisely and balance
academics with extra-curricular activities.
The master schedule is built to accommodate the
requests students made when they chose their classes in
Spring. The master schedule is built to avoid the greatest
number of conflicts. However, some schedule conflicts
cannot be avoided and a few students may not be able to
get into their desired courses.
Students must select their courses carefully! Teachers
are hired and the number of sections offered are deter-
mined based on the choices students make.
Berkeley High School does not accommodate for teacher
preference or period preference for students.
Infinite Campus, our student information system, offers
families the opportunity to access their child’s attendance
and academic information. Students may access Infinite
Campus using their berkeley.net Google account. Fami-
lies are encouraged to use Infinite Campus to get current
student information. If you need support setting up your
Infinite Campus account, contact our Parent Resource
Center at 644-4814.
Career and College Guidance
General Information about
College Admissions
The information included in this section is intended to
be a general overview of college admission eligibility
requirements as it relates to course selection throughout
your high school career. The BHS College Advisors have
extensive, up-to-date college admission information,
including assistance with testing and financial aid. They
are located in the College/Career Center (D221). The Col-
lege/Career Center has information on over 3,000 colleges
and universities. The College/Career Advisors provide
college related information and instructions to students
and their families for every year of a student’s high school
career. Students and families are encouraged to read the
materials provided for a more thorough understanding
of the college admissions process. There are also college
bulletins and updates posted on the etree. Additional
information on college admissions and financial aid can
be found on the College/Career Center website:
bhs.berkeleyschools.net/resources/college-career-center
Keeping Your Options Open
We encourage all BHS students to choose the most rig-
orous schedule that enables them to be successful. A
student’s coursework and grades affect the options that
they will have after graduation. A student’s eligibility to
apply to a four-year college directly from high school is
impacted by the courses they choose to take.
Alternative Graduation Option
The California Proficiency Program (CPP) is an alterna-
tive option to graduation that will replace the California
High School Proficiency Exam (CHSPE). For further
information, visit www.cde.ca.gov/ta/tg/cp.asp
Education Options After High School
California Community Colleges
Community colleges are publicly funded schools that
offer two year programs of study as well as many career
track options. This is typically the most affordable option
for students. Student can attended community college
for two years and then transfer as a junior to a four year
college or university. Admission is open to 1.) All high
school graduates, 2.) non-grads who have passed the CCP
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
support & guidance
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
2
support & guidance
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
3
or the General Education Development Examination
(GED), or 3.) non-grads who are 18 years or older.
California State University (CSU)
The CSU system includes twenty-three universities
within the state of California. Students must have
a minimum GPA of 2.5 based on 10th & 11th grade
courses and meet A-G eligibility requirements. The CSU
no longer uses ACT/SAT examination in determin-
ing admission eligibility. For further information, visit
www.calstate.edu/apply
University of California (UC)
There are nine UCs in California. Admissions to the UCs
is based on a holistic review. Students must have a mini-
mum GPA of 3.0 based on 10th & 11th grade courses and
meet A-G eligibility requirements. For further informa-
tion, visit admission.universityofcalifornia.edu
See page 9 more information about CSU and UC admis-
sion requirements.
Private School / Out of State Public Schools
Each private school and out of state public school has
individual requirements and guidelines for admission.
Students and families are advised to visit the individual
websites for these colleges and universities.
College Entrance Tests
SAT and ACT tests may be required for admission to
private and out-of-state public colleges and universities.
Registration and examination preparation information
is available at www.collegeboard.com, www.act.org, and
in the BHS College/Career Center in D221. Fee waivers
are available. Students seeking 504 accommodations
should see their School Counselor. Please see the Col-
lege Advisor or Academic counselor about when
is the best time to take a subject test.
Policies
Schedule Changes
Any requests for schedule changes must be com-
pleted during registration prior to school start-
ing. A change request is only accepted if the school has
made a mistake or a student has been assigned a wrong
level. Most courses are year-long and students must select
all of their courses prior to the start of the school year.
Students may not change courses mid-year. Students are
not allowed to have gaps in their schedules. They must
continue to attend the courses on their schedule until an
official program change has been made and the counselor
gives them a new schedule. Students who do not receive
an official schedule change before changing classes risk
invalidation of an approved change and a failing grade on
their transcript. Additionally, absences will not be cleared
from attendance.
Withdrawal Policy
Students may apply to withdraw from a course up
until the 7th week of classes. The request may or may
not be honored. Drops granted in the first 15 days of
school will not appear on the permanent record. After
this period and up until the 7th week, the transcript
will reflect a “W” for withdrawal with no credit for the
dropped class. A student who drops a course after the
7th week of the semester shall receive an “F” grade on
their permanent record. If a course drop is approved,
students must obtain a proctor assignment to replace the
dropped course.
This timeline applies to both Fall and Spring semesters.
IB/AP Courses
Students may not drop an IB or AP course. Students
should carefully consider their decision to enroll in these
courses prior to the start of the school year. These courses
are intended to be challenging. Students who have made
the decision to enroll in IB or AP classes are expected to
remain in the course for the entire school year.
Course Credit
Each year-long course is worth 10 credits unless other-
wise noted. Students are expected to earn 30 credits per
semester, 60 credits a year, for a regular six period day. All
students must be enrolled in periods 1–6 with no gaps in
their schedule, except for seniors who may have either no
first or no sixth period.
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
support & guidance
policies
Berkeley High School Textbook Policies
All students must have a school ID card to check out
library and textbooks.
Students are responsible for maintaining the condition
of each textbook that they are issued and will be fined
for all damages.
Students are responsible for the cost of replacing lost or
stolen textbooks. The district may withhold the student’s
grades, diploma and transcripts in accordance with law,
Board policy, and administrative regulation. If the stu-
dent and parent/guardian are unable to pay for the dam-
ages or return of the property, the principal or designee
shall provide a program of voluntary work for the student
to do. (Education Code 48904)
All semester course textbooks are due at the end of the
semester. All other textbooks are due by the end of the
current school year.
Grading Procedures
Grades for achievement shall be reported for each mark-
ing period. The addition of plus/minus signs occurs only
for progress and quarter reports. A grade of “C” or better
is needed to fulfill requirements for a four-year college.
Grade Description Grade Point
A Outstanding Achievement 4.0 grade pts
B Above Average Achievement 3.0 grade pts
C Average Achievement 2.0 grade pts
D Below Average Achievement 1.0 grade pts
F Little or No Achievement 0 grade pts
I Incomplete 0 grade pts
Final Grades are assigned twice a year at the end of
each semester in December and June. Final semester
grades are the only grades recorded on the official tran-
script/permanent record. Quarter Grade Reports are
also issued at the end of the 9th and 27th week of school.
Final and Quarter Grade Reports are mailed home.
Progress Reports are generated at the end of the 5th
week of each quarter. They are designed to communi-
cate with parents and guardians about student progress.
These reports are only mailed to students who have a
minimum of one “D” or “F”. All grades are viewable via
the Parent and Student Portal in Infinite Campus.
Parents should contact the appropriate teacher or
counselor when students are demonstrating academic,
attendance, or behavioral difficulties. Direct communi-
cation with the teachers is highly encouraged.
A grade of Incomplete, “I”, is given only when a stu-
dent’s work is not finished because of illness or other
excused absence. If not made up within six weeks, the
Incomplete in any high school subject becomes an “F”,
as per Berkeley Unified School Board policy. Grades of
“D” do not qualify students to move on to higher level
classes in most subjects.
Additional Credits
Concurrent Enrollment
Students may enrich their BHS experience and earn
additional credits through concurrent enrollment at
community colleges, four-year colleges, Adult School,
and/or approved secondary school. Concurrent
enrollment is not allowed for classes that are offered at
BHS, and students may not take concurrent enrollment
courses during the regular school day. Course completed
under concurrent enrollment cannot be used to skip
levels or to replace the established progression of classes
at Berkeley High. A petition for concurrent enrollment
must be completed prior to enrolling at a college or Adult
School and filed in the Records Center with the registrar.
Students will not receive high school credit if
they have not been pre-approved for concurrent
enrollment. Students must arrange to have their official
sealed transcripts from other schools sent to the registrar
at BHS. Approved concurrent enrollment courses are
calculated into a student’s high school GPA.
Credit Recovery
Credit Recovery is an independent study course that gives
students an opportunity to complete course work required
to receive a passing grade in a course needed for gradua-
tion or college eligibility at the student’s own pace. Credit
Recovery courses are aligned with the California State
Content Standards and Frameworks. Select courses meet
the University of California’s “a-g” requirements. Credits
earned will be posted on the student’s BHS transcript. For
further information, see your School Counselor.
Summer School
BHS offers a limited summer school program.
Participation is limited to students who have failed a
course required for graduation. Priority is granted to
seniors based on need.
Placement in Courses
Berkeley High strives to place students in classes where
they will be challenged, successful and supported.
There are many factors that are taken into consideration
when placing students into courses including: learning
community requirements, grades, test scores, teacher/
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
policies
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
4
policies
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
5
counselor recommendations, department assessments
and prerequisites.
English Learner Classification and Placement
Classification
According to the California Education Code, families
are required to complete a Home Language Survey upon
enrollment to a California public school to identify the
languages spoken at home. Once verified that a student
speaks a language other than English, the district is
required to assess the student’s level of English within 30
calendar days of enrollment. The English Language Pro-
ficiency Assessment for California (ELPAC) assesses Eng-
lish proficiency in listening, speaking, reading and writ-
ing skills and determines the initial classification of a new
student. Students who score at levels 1 and 2 are identified
as English Learners (EL), also known as Multilingual
Learners (ML). Students who score at level 3 are classified
as initially fluent English proficiency (IFEP).
Once students are classified as English Learners, the dis-
trict is legally required to provide appropriate services to
support the development of English. In the spring of each
school year, all ELs take the Summative ELPAC to assess
and monitor their progress in English language develop-
ment until they meet the criteria for reclassification to
fluent English proficient (RFEP)—see reclassification
criteria below.
For further information, please call the BHS Multilingual
Office at 510-644-6949.
▸
Placement
At Berkeley High School, Multilingual Learners (ELs)
will be placed in one of two programs: Multilingual New-
comer Program (MLP) or English language mainstream.
Placement is based upon the results of the Initial ELPAC.
ELs who score at levels 1-2 on the Initial ELPAC and
entered U.S. public schools within 4 years are placed in the
BHS Multilingual Newcomer Program (MLP) which pro-
vides specialized classes in English Language Development
(ELD) and Structured English Immersion (SEI) content
classes in History, Science and Math. ELs in the MLP meet
with a school counselor and choose an elective course.
ELs who score at level 1-2 on the Initial ELPAC and have
attended schools in the United States for more than 4
years are placed in the English language mainstream.
They are required to take a designated English Language
Development (ELD) class in addition to a core English
class until they meet the criteria for reclassification to
fluent English proficient (RFEP).
▸
Students who identified as initially fluent English pro-
ficient (IFEP) are placed in the English language main-
stream and are not required to take designated ELD.
Els in the MLP typically gain one level of English profi-
ciency each year as measured by the Summative ELPAC.
At the end of each school year, a team of teachers use
classroom observations, formative and state assessments
to determine the appropriate placement for the follow-
ing school year.
Reclassification Criteria
Multilingual Learners are reclassified as fluent English
proficient (RFEP) when they have acquired sufficient Eng-
lish skills to access content instruction at a comparable
level as their native English speaking peers. The reclas-
sification criteria includes multiple measures to insure
both English language proficiency and academic achieve-
ment at grade level. Ultimately, ELs are prepared to exit
all specialized classes when they have the necessary skills
in English to succeed in mainstream classes without any
additional specialized support.
Reclassification (9th–12th Grade)
Criteria Evidence of Mastery
English Language
Proficiency
Overall Level 4 on Summative ELPAC
Teacher Evaluation Course grade of C or better in English
Language Arts
Basic Skills
Relative to English
Proficient Students
Level 3 or 4 on standardized assessment
in English Language Arts - STAR or SBAC
Parent/Guardian
Consultation
Parent/Guardian authorization
Reclassification Process
1. ELs take the Summative ELPAC in the spring on an
annual basis until reclassified. Once a student scores
at an overall proficiency level 4, the remaining criteria
are verified.
2. 3. 4. The ELD Coordinator checks the most recent semester
or quarter grade to verify that the student is perform-
ing at grade level with a grade C or better in English.
The ELD Coordinator checks the most recent stan-
dardized test in English reading (STAR) or English
Language Arts (SBAC) to verify that the student
scored at level 4.
Once all those criteria are met, the ELD Coordina-
tor contacts the parent or guardian to discuss their
student’s eligibility for reclassification. If the parent/
guardian approves, the student is officially reclassified.
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
5. Following a recognition and celebration of a student’s
achievement, the school is responsible for monitoring
their progress for four years to ensure the student is suc-
ceeding in the mainstream. If, for any reason, a reclassi-
fied student is struggling academically, the ELD Coordi-
nator takes the appropriate action with the site admin-
istrator, counselors, teachers and parents/guardians to
ensure the student receives the appropriate support.
English Learners with Learning
Differences (IEP)
The California Department of Education provides guid-
ance to districts on how to responsibly implement the
four criteria for reclassification for English Learners
with disabilities.
Reclassification (9th–12th Grade) for ELs with IEPs
Criteria Evidence of Mastery
English Language
Proficiency
Assess English language proficiency
using an objective assessment, including
but not limited to the ELPAC or Alternate
ELPAC per state law EC 313(f).
Teacher Evaluation Determined academic performance
based on the student’s IEP goals in an
English class.
Basic Skills
Relative to English
Proficient Students
Specify in the student’s IEP an assess-
ment of the basic skills to meet the
guidelines for reclassification, such as
the California Alternate Assessment for
English Language Arts. The IEP team may
consider using other assessments that
are valid and reliable to compare the ba-
sic skills of ELs with disabilities to native
English speakers with similar disabilities
to determine whether the EL with disabil-
ities has sufficiently mastered the basic
skills for reclassification. The IEP team
may use this comprehensive approach to
make decisions regarding program sup-
port and reclassification that will allow
the student to make maximum progress,
given the student’s capacities.
Parent/Guardian
Consultation
Encourage parents/guardians to be a
participant on the IEP team and, in un-
derstanding, and to make a decision on
reclassification.
Mathematics Placement
Notes to Entering 9th graders
Most 9th grade students will take Math 1. A select number
of students may be eligible for and elect to take Advanced
Math 1, a more fast-paced version of the course with
additional topics. Placement in Advanced Math 1 will
be determined by a placement test, covering all topics of
Grade 8 Common Core Math. This means that previous
coursework must include familiarity with both algebra and
geometry topics. The placement test is administered in the
spring semester of 8th grade and notification of placements
will be sent to all families prior to summer break.
Notes to Current Math 1 Students
The last opportunity to enter the advanced math sequence
is at Advanced Math 2. This process will begin in the
spring of their 9th grade year. Interested students will be
given an opportunity to demonstrate their mathematical
reasoning and communication skills by answering some
open-ended problems. Their responses to these problems,
performance in Math 1, and space availability will be used
to determine placement. Those who are selected will need
to do some additional work during the summer to prepare
for the course. Students’ completion of that work will be
evaluated, and their proficiency in the coursework will be
tested in August before students begin Advanced Math 2.
Notes to Current Math 2 Students
There is no entry point for Math 2 students to move to
Advanced Math 3.
Notes to Students New to BUSD
9th grade students transferring to BHS will enroll in
Math 1. 10th grade students transferring to BHS who were
enrolled in a geometry grade-level math course at their
previous school will enroll in Math 2. 11th grade students
transferring to BHS who were enrolled in a grade-level
math course at their previous school will enroll in Math 3.
If students are not enrolled in a grade-level math course,
they should be directed to the math VP and/or math team
leads before enrolling in a course.
Students transferring to BHS who were in an honors,
advanced, or accelerated sequence at their previous
high school who want to enter the advanced sequence at
Advanced Math 2 or 3 will need their previous course-
work to be evaluated and will need to be tested on the
material from the previous class(es). Sophomore transfer
students may enter the advanced sequence at Advanced
Math 2. Junior transfer students may enter the advanced
sequence at Advanced Math 3. These students should be
directed to the math VP and/or math team leads before
enrolling in a course.
Mathematics Honors-Level Courses
The UCOP awards additional honors credit for AP
Calculus BC, AP Calculus AB, AP Statistics, IB HL
Math, and IB SL Math.
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
policies
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
6
policies
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
7
Restrictions on Mathematics Course Changes
Once placed in an AP, IB or advanced math course, stu-
dents may not elect to move to a non-advanced course
that school year.
Science Placement
The UC Office of the President requires the following: Two
years (three years recommended) of laboratory science
providing fundamental knowledge in two of these three
foundational subjects: biology, chemistry and physics.
In order to graduate from BHS, student must earn a “D”
or better in two years of science: one year of physical sci-
ence and one year of life science. However, most four-year
colleges and universities require a minimum of two years
of college-preparatory (P) laboratory science courses from
two different areas, and many recommend three years.
See pg 73-77 for a list of science courses.
AP & IB Informational Meetings
Students are strongly recommended to attend an infor-
mational meeting for AP or IB Science courses in the
spring before the course, at which they will be told about
the expectations of the course.
World Language Placement
Students with little or no previous language experience
are placed into a level 1 (first year) class. Students with
previous experience are placed into the appropriate level
based on their transcripts.
BUSD students wishing to “skip” a level must take the
World Language Placement test.
The World Language placement test is administered in
the spring semester and notification of placements will
be sent to all families prior to summer break.
PE Waivers
This waiver form applies only to students partici-
pating in an outside sports program that fulfills
the following requirements below.
Any student, participating in a state or nationally spon-
sored competitive sports activity, including participation
in a professional dance company, can apply to waive out
of the Physical Education requirement class at Berkeley
High School. In order to qualify for a PE Waiver, a student
must participate at least five (5) hours a week (or 60 hours
in a semester) in their sport or activity. For a waiver to be
granted, the coach of the activity is required to complete
the documentation needed to show that the student will
meet the state and physical standards on official letterhead
describing their program. The student that is applying for
a PE Waiver must have the coach complete the appropriate
paperwork (1. A signed PE waiver form, 2. A description
of the activity on company letterhead, 3. Proof of registra-
tion) before the deadline at the beginning of the semester
and have the coach email them to pewaivers@berkeley.
net. Coaches must submit proof of completion of activity
at the end of the semester as well. PE waivers submitted
by parents/students will not be accepted. PE Waivers are
available on the BHS website. For questions regarding PE
Waivers please contact pewaivers@berkeley.net.
Student Proctor
Many teachers need and welcome students to assist
them in their classroom. A student may enroll in only one
proctor section per semester in 12th grade only, and teach-
ers may not have more than one student proctor per year. A
proctor section replaces an academic class.
BHS Student Technology Services
Berkeley HS is pleased to offer students access to com-
puters, network, printing and filtered internet. Use of
these services is contingent on students signing the
Berkeley High Acceptable Use Policy (AUP). The AUP
governs the acceptable use of all campus technology
resources. Violation of the AUP may result in disciplin-
ary action. The AUP will be provided to all students
upon registration in August.
The Berkeley High School E-Tree
BHS has an email list serve which posts the Student
Bulletin, College/Career Bulletin, messages from the
Principal, information about events, news and volunteer
opportunities. The parent-run effort works closely with
the administration in order to ensure accuracy.
To subscribe to the BHS etree please send an email to:
bhs-request@lmi.net with one word only in the subject line:
subscribe. If you have trouble subscribing, please contact
the parent volunteer facilitators at: bhs-owner@lmi.net
Google Account
All BHS students will be given a Gmail account in the
students.berkeley.net domain. Addresses are created com-
bining the student’s first and last name (where possible).
All non-alpha characters are removed from the student’s
email address. (firstnamelastname@students.berkeley.net)
Passwords are auto-generated combining ‘Berkeley’ and
your student id:
Username: dollyparton@students.berkeley.net
Password: Berkeley7654321
Infinite Campus
Student grades and attendance are available in our stu-
dent information system, Infinite Campus. Students
and parents can log in using the same convention as the
Google accounts.
Computers and Printing
Berkeley High School has more than 50 mobile com-
puter carts that are used frequently during class time. In
addition, the BHS Library and the College and Career
Center have computers available for student use as well
as free printing services for students. The library is open
before school, at lunch and after school. The College and
Career Center is open after school. A pass is required to
visit at all other times.
Network and Internet
The BHS network and filtered internet can be accessed
on campus. The BHS-Student-WL network is available
for students. The password for this network changes
each fall- the front desk can tell you the current password.
Interscholastic Athletic Program
The Interscholastic Athletic Program is open to
all Berkeley High, Berkeley Technology Academy, and
Berkeley Independent Study students. Students earn up to
5 physical education credits for each season they complete
successfully; credits will appear on the transcript. To be
eligible to participate in interscholastic athletics, a student
must meet the following requirements:
▸
The student must be regularly enrolled in at least 20
semester units at Berkeley High School, Berkeley Tech-
nology Academy or Berkeley Independent Study.
▸
The students must register online with Home Campus.
Visit BHS Athletics page: berkeleyhighathletics.org
▸
Prior to trying out, the student must register on Home
Campus, including an annual physical.
▸
The student must try out and be selected for a team.
▸
The student must maintain at least a 2.0 grade average
each quarter or semester.
▸
Student’s name must appear on a team roster generated
by BHS athletic department.
▸
The student must remain eligible during the entire sea-
son of the sport.
▸
All transfer students must be cleared by the athletic
department and the North Coast Section before they are
eligible to compete in a contest. Email athleticdirector@
berkeley.net if you transfer from another high school.
Team Definitions
Boys’ Team
Whenever the school provides a boys’ team and a girls’
team in the same sport, girls shall not be permitted to
qualify for the boys’ team(s) in that sport nor shall boys
be permitted to qualify for the girls’ team(s) in that sport.
Girls’ Team
Whenever the school provides only a girls’ team in a par-
ticular sport, boys shall not be permitted to qualify for
the girls’ team in that sport unless opportunities in the
total sports program for boys in the school has been lim-
ited in comparison to the total sports program for girls
in that school. Permission for boys to qualify for the girls’
team must be secured through petition by the school
principal to the CIF Federated Council.
Mixed Team (Co-ed)
Whenever the school provides a mixed or co-ed team
in a sport in which the game rules designate either a
certain number of team participants from each sex or
contains an event that designates a certain number of
participants from each sex, boys shall not be permitted
to qualify for the girls’ positions on the mixed team, nor
shall girls be permitted to qualify for the boys’ positions
on the mixed or co-ed team.
The following athletic teams are part of the
Interscholastic Athletic Program:
Fall
Cross Country
(Boys and Girls)
Field Hockey (Girls)
Flag Football (Girls)
Football
Golf (Girls)
Cheerleading (co-ed)
Tennis (Girls)
Volleyball (Girls)
Water polo (Boys and Girls)
Winter
Basketball (Boys and Girls)
Soccer (Boys and Girls)
Wrestling (Boys and Girls)
Spring
Badminton (co-ed)
Baseball (Boys)
Crew (Boys and Girls)
Golf (Boys)
Lacrosse (Boys and Girls)
Softball (Girls)
Swim & Diving (Boys and
Girls)
Tennis (Boys)
Track & Field (Boys and
Girls)
Volleyball (Boys)
Note: Winter sports begin in the fall semester but don’t
appear on the student’s transcript until the spring semes-
ter is concluded.
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
policies
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
8
GRADUATION AND UC/CSU REQUIREMENTS
graduation requirements
Students must meet all of the requirements for graduation (credits and courses) by
the deadline for the June grading period to be eligible to participate in the graduation
ceremony. Students who must complete graduation requirements in the summer
following the senior year will not be eligible to participate in the June ceremony and
will receive a diploma at the end of summer school.
• Pass Minimum of 220 Credits
• Pass Required Courses (All UC/CSU required classes must be passed with grade of “C” or better)
UC/CSU required “a–g” courses* Berkeley High School required courses
a 2 years 20 credits
1 year of World History/Cultures
AND
1 year of U.S. History
OR 1 semester of U.S. History AND 1 semester of
American Government
Social Studies
9th:
10th:
11th:
12th:
4 years 40 credits
Ethnic Studies and Social Living / Health
World History/Global History
U.S. History/IB History of the Americas
American Government and Economics
(1 semester each)/IB History of the Americas
b 4 years 40 credits
All college preparatory English courses that include
frequent and regular writing and reading of classic
and modern literature
English
9th:
10th:
11th:
12th:
4 years 40 credits
English
World Literature/Global Literature
American Literature/IB English HL /AP Language
Two semesters/IB English HL
c 3 years (4 years recommended) 30 credits
Math 1
Math 2
Additional Math Course
Mathematics 2 years 20 credits
Completion of Math 1
required in addition to a second year
of math
d 2 years (3 years recommended - must be college prep science)
1 year Physical Science
1 year Life Science
20 credits
Science 2 years 20 credits
1 year Physical Science
1 year Life Science
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26 e 2 years (3 years recommended) 20 credits
In the same language
World
Language
f 1 year-long course in one of the following: dance, drama/theater, music or visual art
10 credits
Visual &
Performing Arts
1 year 10 credits
Career Tech
Ed (CTE)
g 1 year/2 semesters 10 credits
Chosen from additional “a-f” courses beyond those used
to satisfy the requirements above, or courses that have
been approved solely for use as “g” electives
Electives 14 semesters 70 credits
(Phys. Ed. not required for UC/CSU) Physical
Education
4 semesters 20 credits
Total BHS Required Credits 220 credits
*
The complete list of “a-g” approved course can be found at www.ucop.edu/doorways.edu/list. Information regarding courses approved by UCOP
to receive additional honors credit can be found on this website.
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President (Pg.9); “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language,
(f)-Visual and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career
Technical Education (Pg. 12); (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
9
Adult School
Berkeley Adult School (BAS)
Career Technical Education
Pathways establish guidelines
to assist students interested in
foundational career training
using “BAS Certificate Programs.” Our pro-
grams teach skills directly linked with cur-
rent employment opportunities.
BAS is located at 1701 San Pablo Avenue. For more infor-
mation, log onto their website at: http://bas.berkeley.net/.
Administrative Assistant
Business and Customer Communications
Writing/Speaking/Telephoning in a Multi-Cultural
Business
Basic Computer Literacy
Business Math
Keyboarding
Workplace Office Applications
Customer Service
Business and Customer Communications
Writing/Speaking/Telephoning in a Multi-Cultural
Business
Basic Computer Literacy
Keyboarding
Workplace Office Applications
Computer Graphics for Print
Basic Design for Print and Web
Creative Suite Intro
Acrobat
Illustrator I
InDesign I
InDesign II
Photoshop I
Photoshop II and III
Computer Graphics for Web
Basic Design for Print and Web
Creative Suite Intro
Dreamweaver I
Dreamweaver II
Illustrator I
Photoshop I
Photoshop II
Bookkeeping/Accounting
Business and Customer Communications
Basic Computer Literacy
Business Math
Keyboarding
Workplace Office Applications
Fundamentals of Accounting
Computerized Accounting Concepts
Food Service/Culinary Arts
Business and Customer Communications
Basic Computer Literacy
Workplace Office Applications
Bread Project
Medical Office Assistant
Business and Customer Communications
Keyboarding
Workplace Office Applications
Administrative Medical Assistant
Medical Terminology
CPR
Healthcare/Medical Patient Care
Business and Customer Communications
Keyboarding
Basic Computer Literacy
CPR
Medical Terminology
Pharmacy Technician
Clinical Medical Assistant
Certified Nurse Assistant
Emergency Medical Technician (P-Pending)
City College
Berkeley City College is located
two blocks north of Berkeley
High and offers multiple oppor-
tunities for students to earn
college and high school credit.
As long as the course is not offered at Berkeley High
and does not interfere with a student’s regular classes,
BHS and Independent Study students can request con-
current enrollment in a single course.
High school students can also jumpstart their college
education with a new high school transition to college
program called Persist to College. Benefits: Students
can complete one year of college before they graduate
from high school and obtain high school credits for the
work completed at BCC. Select from a four-year col-
lege track or an accelerated path to a technical career.
Requirements: Maintain a BCC GPA of 2.5 or higher.
Enroll and complete requirements of a specific series
of courses.
For additional information or to obtain an appli-
cation, email PERSIST Coordinator Christ Lebo-
Planas at: aleboplanas@peralta.edu
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
career & college readiness
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
10
career & college readiness
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
11
CAREER & COLLEGE READINESS
It is the vision of the Berkeley Unified School District that all students will be prepared for
both career and college. All students will have the opportunity to research their individual
interests and aptitudes, learn more about post-secondary programs that can best direct them
toward their career goals, have the opportunity to earn high school credit for an internship or
a work-based learning experience, learn more about and pursue the jobs and careers that are
in highest demand, and take courses in Career Technical Education (CTE).
CTE is defined as a program
of study that involves a mul-
tiyear sequence of courses
that integrates core academic
knowledge with technical and
occupational knowledge to
provide students with a path-
way to postsecondary education and careers. UCOP rec-
ognizes these courses as college preparatory. Berkeley
High students can use courses designated as (CTE) as an
optional requirement for graduation.
The small schools at Berkeley High offer their students
a unique opportunity to be immersed in a distinct CTE
pathway. AHA and CAS offers pathways in Arts Media
and Entertainment. AMPS offers a Public and Com-
munity Health pathway in Health Science and Medi-
cal Technology sector. Students in these communities
participate in interdisciplinary projects and internships
and interact directly with numerous industry and com-
munity partners.
All BHS students have access to a wide variety of career
pathways. From Robotics to Fire Science to Biotechnol-
ogy to Advanced Video and Photography classes – stu-
dents at Berkeley High have the opportunity to learn
from and be exposed to employers and careers in these
industries.
CTE Options
Some CTE courses at Berkeley High can be taken in
sequence and lead students directly toward a career in
that field. There are many other CTE courses offered
at Berkeley High School, many of which are embedded
within our small schools. There are other courses that
are not CTE designated, but can support a student in a
chosen pathway. The chart on page 16 shows how all the
different CTE courses fit into different pathways and
industry sectors.
CAD Design Studio (CTE) Year
· 10 Credits
In this course, students will become familiar with all
aspects of the design process from drawing, 3D model-
ing and CAD drafting through advanced manufactur-
ing techniques such as 3D printing and CNC machin-
ing. Using the Design Thinking process, students will
learn to think like a designer as they develop innova-
tive solutions to real world problems. This class will
encourage the use of design software to generate ideas
and proposals, as well as fabrication tools to realize
those ideas in three dimensions. Students will learn to
safely and confidently use hand and power tools to cut,
fasten and assemble different materials as they make
functional objects and structures. Students will toggle
between the architectural scale, the product design
scale and the furniture scale through individual and
group projects as they build their individual tool kit
and explore their creativity. Priority enrollments for
11th and 12th grade. No prerequisite. UC/CSU (g)
Fundamentals of Carpentry (CTE) Year
· 10 Credits
This course covers construction and building design,
performance, sustainability, the study of safety, hand
and power tools, planning and design, applicable
mathematics, blueprint reading, trade nomenclature,
residential and commercial construction standards
and other specialized skills. This course includes
preparation for a Class B California License.
(General Building Contractor) and the Carpenters
Apprenticeship Program. 11th and 12th. Priority
enrollment for 12th grade. UC/CSU (g)
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
Stagecraft Technical
Theatre 1/2 (CTE) Year
· 10 Credits
This Entertainment Technician course introduces and
develops students in four departments of entertainment
technician expertise; Rigging, Carpentry, Lighting and
Audio-Video. The course concentrates on fundamental
elements of expertise an entertainment technician must
have to succeed and thrive in the broad industry of
presenting Performing Arts in its many forms and will
foster connection to International Alliance of Theatrical
Stage Employees (IATSE Local 107). Opportunity for
Internships. Class meets on Tuesday & Thursday 7th
period with many many hours of evening and weekend
“practicum” hours required throughout the school year
supporting BHS performances. UC/CSU (g)
Stagecraft Technical
Theatre 3/4 (CTE) Year
· 10 Credits
The Entertainment Technician course further develops
students in four departments of entertainment technician
expertise; Rigging, Carpentry, Lighting and Audio-
Video. The course concentrates on fundamental elements
of expertise an entertainment technician must have to
succeed and thrive in the broad industry of presenting
Performing Arts in its many forms. Strong emphasis is
placed on safe working practices for all aspects of produc-
ing entertainment presentations. Coursework includes
classroom training on concepts and skills and practical
application in an entertainment production environment
of those skills to achieve confidence and mastery. Be able
to work as a contributing and responsive member of a
department team using appropriate and effective com-
munication to assist with known active work as well as
problem solve new challenges, understand protocols and
procedures for working in live performance both indi-
vidually and part of the production team. Opportunity
for Internships. Class meets on Tuesday & Thursday 7th
period with many many hours of evening and weekend
“practicum” hours required throughout the school year
supporting BHS performances. Prerequisite: Stagecraft
Technical Theater 1/2. UC/CSU (g)
Digital Sound Engineering
(CTE) Year
· 10 Credits
Sound Engineering is an introduction to basic MIDI
(Musical Instrument Digital Interface) concepts and tech-
niques. Topics include keyboard programming, sound
modules, sequencing, and electronic music production.
Students will gain a foundational understanding of digital
and analog audio systems from an acoustical, electri-
cal, and signal flow perspective, balancing new state-of-
the-art techniques with an understanding of historical
context. Students will learn basic music theory (rhythm,
melody, harmony), how to identify different musical
instruments based on acoustical properties, and how to
transcribe music. They will create melodic and harmonic
loops and record cover songs. Students will also learn
about the music industry in the U.S. Course. This Knowl-
edge will be reinforced with substantial experiential proj-
ect time, using professional equipment as students attain
the technical facility necessary for careers in the digital
media realm. There will be an emphasis on integrated
projects with the performing arts and the established
Digital Video pathways. UC/CSU (f)
Advanced Sound Production
(Sound Engineering 2)
(F) (CTE) Year
· 10 Credits
Advanced Sound Production builds upon and expands
the advanced use of recording and editing technolo-
gies to expose students to what it takes to be an audio
professional. While focusing on the aesthetic qualities
of sound production and analyzing the impact of digital
audio technology as an inherent form of communication
in today’s society. Students will convey creative expres-
sion and develop ideas individually and within groups.
Students use many of the concepts learned in the previ-
ous Sound Engineering course to experience real-world,
professional applications. Lessons and projects were cre-
ated to have students consider the wide-ranging oppor-
tunities within the audio field and the skills needed to
attain them. Students in this advanced audio produc-
tion course will gain “real world” experience as they sup-
port live productions and studio recording. Advanced
students will also explore their personal interests (mak-
ing music, scoring and foley work for film and video,
sound design, etc.), while being challenged to go beyond
what they know and learn a host of skills they might use
as a professional audio engineer/producer. Prerequi-
site: Digital Sound Engineering. UC/CSU (f)
Additional CTE Courses:
Robotics Engineering (P)(CTE)
Advanced Robotics Engineering (P)(CTE)
Robotics Build, Advanced (P)(CTE)
Mechatronics Engineering (P)(CTE)
AP Computer Science Principles (H)(P)(CTE)
AP Computer Science A (Java) (H)(P)(CTE)
For additional information about CTE
Technology: Robotics, Engineering, and
Computer Science courses, see page 62.
career & college readiness
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical Educa-
tion; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
12
career & college readiness
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025-26
13
The following CTE courses are intended to be taken in
sequence. In some cases, a students may bypass the first
year of the sequence. See course descriptions for details:
B-STEP: Berkeley Safety Technical
Emergency Program
Fire Science (CTE) Year
·
10 Credits
This course follows the California Firefighter 1 curricu-
lum and prepares students for future study of fire sci-
ence as well as providing them hands on experience. The
fundamentals of the fire fighting equipment, methods of
rescue, emergency procedures and fire department orga-
nization. Integrated throughout the course are career
preparation standards which include basic academic
skills, communication, interpersonal skills, problem
solving, workplace safety, technology and employ-
ment literacy. Prerequisite: Students will be required
to arrange for their own transportation to a fire station
when necessary. Note: Students are never allowed to
drive other students. UC/CSU (g)
EMT Basic (CTE) Year
·
10 Credits
This course is open to both seniors and adults and will
take place at the Berkeley Adult School one evening ses-
sion per week and one Saturday session per month. It
will instruct students to the level of Emergency Medi-
cal Technician-Basic. The EMT serves as a vital link
in the chain of the health care team. It is recognized
that most pre-hospital emergency medical care will be
provided by an Emergency Medical Technician, who
needs to know skills necessary to provide emergency
care at a basic life support level with an ambulance ser-
vice or other specialized service. After completion of
the program, the student will be prepared to take the
EMT-Basic exam required for national certification.
Topics include CPR, medical terminology, anatomy,
advanced life support interface, scene/patient assess-
ment, communicable diseases, traumatic emergencies,
medical emergencies, obstetric emergencies, pediatrics,
geriatrics, environmental emergencies, and behavior
emergencies, plus 10 hours of “ride along” with the Fire
Department or ambulance crew. Integrated throughout
the course are career preparation standards that include
basic academic skills, communication, interpersonal
skills, problem solving, workplace safety, technology
and employment literacy. Prerequisites: Fire Science.
UC/CSU (g)
Law and Social Justice I (P)(CTE) Year
·
10 Credits
Analyzing, critiquing, and evaluating the criminal jus-
tice system, Law and Social Justice examines the best
practices and contemporary issues within law enforce-
ment, the courts, and prisons. A Career and Technical
Education course, class time also explores central and
peripheral careers within the criminal justice system.
Course work embraces work based learning, contextu-
alizing the issues and careers through field trips, guest
speakers, panels, and lecturers. Prerequisites: Must
be a junior and in good standing with other required
coursework. UC/CSU (g)
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
Law and Social Justice II:
Topics (P)(CTE) Year
·
10 Credits
Law II is a “senior seminar” level course, building on
the foundational work completed in Law I. The class
investigates deeper into the important and relevant
issues facing the criminal justice system in the United
States. Using field work, class discussion, text analysis,
and research, students will explore the critical compo-
nents and solutions in policing and law, in addition to
building on career exploration in these areas. Topics for
exploration include racial profiling, adequate represen-
tation by counsel in the courts, and inequities in prison
sentencing. Prerequisites: Law and Social Justice I.
UC/CSU (g)
Biotechnology 1/2 (P)(CTE) Year
·
10 Credits
The course centers around the following areas: labora-
tory measurement and calculation, energetics of life,
growth and reproduction, structural basis of function in
living systems, chemistry of living systems, quantitative
problem solving and data acquisition and display. Issues
of career development, ethics and technology will also be
stressed. Priority will be given to Juniors who are concur-
rently enrolled in Chemistry or Biology. All students must
have earned a “C” average in college preparatory math.
UC/CSU (d)
Biotechnology 3/4 (P)(CTE) Year
·
10 Credits
This course covers chemistry and biochemistry
concepts related to biotechnology, genetics, DNA
transformations, protein purification techniques, cell
growth and monitoring techniques, immunology and
other aspects of biotechnology. Prerequisites: Grade
12. Biotech 1/2 is required. UC/CSU (d)
For the following Visual and Performing
Art Sequences
See pg. 78-85 for course descriptions:
Digital Photo (P)
Advanced Digital Photography (P)(CTE)
Beginning Photo (P)
Advanced Photography (P)(CTE)
Art of Video Production (P)(CTE)
Advanced Studio Editing (P)( CTE)
The following small schools provide Linked Learning
style of education which both prepares students for
a four-year college and clearly defined pathway of
courses and cross-discipline immersion in a particular
area of interest:
Arts and Humanities Academy (AHA)
pg. 28–32
AHA Advanced Creative Arts (P)(CTE) – 10th grade
AHA Advanced Drawing and Painting (P)(CTE) – 11th
grade
AHA AP Studio Art (P)(CTE)(H) – 12th grade
Academy of Medicine and Public Service
(AMPS) pg. 33–37
AMPS Chemistry (P) – 10th grade
AMPS Biological Health Science (P)(CTE) – 11th grade
AMPS Community Service Professions (P)(CTE) –
11th grade
Honors Forensic Science (P)(CTE) – 12th grade
Recommended: Fire Science (CTE), EMT-Basic (CTE)
Communication Arts and Sciences (CAS)
pg. 46–50
CAS-Computer Arts (P) – 10th grade
CAS-Art of Video Production (P)(CTE) – 11th grade
Advanced Studio Editing (P)(CTE) or
Advanced Digital Photography (P)(CTE) – 12th grade
Berkeley International High School (BIHS)
pg. 38–45
IB Film (SL)(H)(P)(CTE) 11th/12th
IB Film (HL)(H)(P)(CTE) 11th/12th
Open to non BIHS Students.
IB-SL Computer Science (SL)(H)(P)(CTE) 11th/12th
IB-HL Computer Science (HL)(H)(P)(CTE) 11th/12th
career & college readiness
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical Educa-
tion; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
14
career & college readiness
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26 15
Work Experience Education (CTE)
Field Studies Semester
·
3-10 Credits
This course allows students to do extensive learn-
ing in a community setting through a supervised
internship in which students learn communication,
problem solving, critical thinking, and information
technology skills as well as professional ethics and
responsibility while developing career goals. Students
must document a minimum of 60 supervised intern-
ship hours.
Publications
Jacket (P) (CTE) Year
·
10 Credits
Students who enroll in Jacket contribute high quality
material to this award-winning bi-monthly publication.
The Jacket publishes 16 pages of local news, commen-
tary, and reviews for the Berkeley High School com-
munity.
Largely directed by student editors, Jacket teaches
students to meet deadlines, be a responsible team
member, improve their writing/photography/
illustration skills, and take initiative. Jacket writers,
photographers and illustrators receive training
and constant feedback from editors and have the
opportunity to pursue leadership positions if they
contribute throughout their high school career.
Students must apply for a staff position as a writer,
photographer, or illustrator. Note: Admission to the
Jacket is by application only. Please visit the Jacket
online at www.berkeleyhighjacket.com. UC/CSU (g)
Yearbook Design
& Publishing (P)(CTE) Year
·
10 Credits
Berkeley High’s Yearbook Design and Publishing
course is a year-long course designed to develop stu-
dents’ understanding of storytelling, visual art and
design and their respective impacts on the communi-
ties in which they serve. This course, in tandem with
learning the marketing and business mechanics that
are necessary for producing a product and publish-
ing a book, will also be using class time to develop
skills specified areas related to interests and job titles.
Chiefly directed by student editors, students learn
how to meet deadlines, be a responsible team mem-
ber, improve their writing/photography/design skills,
and take initiative.
The course starts with a focus on teaching students
about adapting and creating for their target audi-
ence and simulating creativity through a variety of
two-dimensional media. Students will then apply
this artistic process to create designs for the yearbook
publication. Finally, they will maintain the integrity
of design through the editing process, while collabo-
rating and communicating with their colleagues on
the yearbook staff. The assignments in the course will
demonstrate a student’s ability to apply the principles
of design and effectively communicate their message.
Assignments will also have students process, respond
to, and judge design works using their knowledge
of elements of art and the principles of design and
inspire better work. Note: Admission only by applica-
tion for YD&P I, an additional interview is required
for those seeking editor positions as a part of YD&P
II. UC/CSU (f)
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
16
universal 9th grade
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
17
Universal 9th Grade
All incoming ninth grade students are assigned to one of seven houses, or hives. These
hives are composed of approximately 120 students who share 4 teachers in their core
subject areas: Math 1 (or Advanced Math 1), Physics 1, English, and Ethnic Studies/Social
Living. Students choose their remaining two classes out of the elective options presented
below. At the end of ninth grade, students have the opportunity to rank one of the five
learning communities at Berkeley High School for their 10th-12th grade education.
Sample Student Schedule for 9th Grade:
Per. Class
1 Elective
2 Physics 1
3 Ethnic Studies/Social Living
4 Math/Advanced Math 1
5 English 1
6 Elective
Freshman Hive Courses:
Students take the following four courses with approxi-
mately 120 students in their Hive:
Mathematics Progression
(see page 64 for more information)
Math 1 (P) Year
·
10 Credits
This course covers strands from algebra, geometry, and
statistics to emphasize the interconnected nature of
mathematics. Specific topics include a deeper under-
standing of algebraic manipulation, functions (linear,
quadratic, and exponential), applying linear models
to data, using transformational geometry to establish
criteria for congruence, coordinate geometry, and an
introduction to matrices and vectors. In addition, stu-
dents will be expected to show proficiency in the Com-
mon Core Standards for Mathematical Practice, such as
modeling with mathematics, attending to precision, and
persevering in problem solving. This is the first year in
the Math 1, Math 2, Math 3 sequence. This sequence pre-
pares students for higher level math courses such as AP
Calculus AB, AP Statistics, and IB-SL Math. UC/CSU (c)
Advanced Math 1 (P) Year
·
10 Credits
This is an accelerated, fast-paced course that rigorously
covers all of the material covered in Math 1 and part of
Math 2, with additional topics, challenging proofs, and
open-ended problems. Students will also cover indirect
and direct proofs of both algebraic and geometric top-
ics. Students will be expected to explain the reasoning
behind their solutions for open-ended questions using
formal, academic language. In addition, students will
demonstrate deep application of the Common Core
Standards for Mathematical Practice, such as reasoning
abstractly and quantitatively, constructing viable argu-
ments, and critiquing the reasoning of others. The time
commitment for this course is most similar to that of
an AP course. A graphing calculator is required. This
sequence prepares students for higher level math courses
such as AP Calculus BC, AP Statistics, and IB-HL Math.
UC/CSU Honors credit is NOT available for this course.
Prerequisite: Placement in Advanced courses is
based on Advanced Math 1 Placement Test score. See
page 6 for details on math placement. UC/CSU (c)
Physics 1 (P) Year
·
10 Credits
Physics 1 is a year-long, college preparatory, algebra-
based laboratory course that introduces the fundamen-
tal concepts and laws of physics. This course is based on
the Next Generation Science Standards and is designed
to help students construct an understanding of both
physics concepts and the mathematical foundations
of the physical world. Students explore these concepts
using laboratory experiences to strengthen problem-
solving skills and learn basic experimental techniques.
This inquiry driven program is tightly aligned with the
9th grade Common Core Math 1 course, reinforcing
the math concepts covered. Students will study physics
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
principles through observing, analyzing and interpret-
ing data, and reporting experimental outcomes, includ-
ing the identification of inconsistent results and sources
of error. The course surveys the traditional topics of
physics, with emphasis on mechanics, wave phenomena,
electricity, magnetism, and energy. UC/CSU (d-lab sci-
ence credit)
English 1 (P) Year
·
10 Credits
Students pursue the year’s essential questions through
extensive reading, writing, research, and discussion. In
addition, they examine important issues in cultures at
home and across the globe through a variety of genres–
poems, plays, short stories, novels, nonfiction, and
multimedia texts. Students will be expected to write in a
variety of modes--narrative, descriptive, expository, ana-
lytical, and argumentative. This class invites students to
explore their own identity, while learning how to identify
with others, and to hear and be heard in a world of cul-
tural and ideological differences. UC/CSU (b)
Freshman Seminar (P)
Humanities: History Year
·
10 Credits
This course is divided into two semesters.
SEMESTER 1: ETHNIC STUDIES
The semester begins with an examination of identity
in which students delve deeper into their own personal
culture and heritage. Who am I? Where do I come
from? How do I fit into the world around us? Next, they
broaden their studies to learn about the experiences and
perspectives of people within and beyond the United
States. Students will study race, migration, and immi-
gration and make personal connections while investigat-
ing the history of current political and global dynamics.
SEMESTER 2: SOCIAL LIVING
Second semester, we focus on issues directly facing
youth today: healthy decision making, media literacy,
substance awareness, nutrition, sexuality, and gender
identity. The semester’s work is grounded in academic
case studies that look at the evolution of these issues
over time. The semester culminates with an evidence
based research project on a current social issue.
Both semesters teach the fundamental skills of critical
thinking, listening, speaking, reading, and writing along
with historical research and investigation, source evalua-
tion, and evidence based analysis, laying the groundwork
for future social science coursework. UC/CSU (a)
Electives Exclusively for Ninth Graders:
LEAP: College and Year
·
10 Credits
Career Success Seminar (P)
LEAP is a 9th grade only elective class wherein students
are supported in their academic, social, and emotional
development as they transition to high school. It com-
bines direct academic support and acceleration with a
robust college and career readiness curriculum centered
around a student’s interests and life goals, a 10-year plan,
and college and career readiness pathways. LEAP instruc-
tors also teach one of the core academic classes in the
Hive, thereby increasing the personalization available to
LEAP students. UC/CSU (g)
universal 9th grade
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
18
universal 9th grade
Other common Elective Options for 9th Graders
In their freshman year, students typically take two electives from the list below.
Once you fulfill the requirements for World Language, Arts, and PE, all additional classes count towards fulfilling your
BHS electives requirements.
Department
# of years required
for High School
Graduation
# of years
required for UC/
CSU eligibility Courses that Freshmen Can Choose From
World Languages 1* 2 Latin, Mandarin, French, Spanish, Spanish for Native Speakers, Spanish
in the African Diaspora
Visual and
Performing Arts 1* 1
African Diaspora Dance, Ceramics, Dance, Drama, Drawing, Photography
(Digital and Wet Lab), Creative Arts, Concert Chorale, Guitar, Jazz Band,
Band, Orchestra, Video Production, Stagecraft
Physical
Education 2 Not Required African Diaspora Dance, Badminton, Basketball, Dance, Intro to Fitness,
Soccer, Team Sports
General Electives Total of 14
semesters* 1 Intro to Computer Programming, Pop Culture/Hip Hop Studies,
LEAP (see above), Robotics Engineering, Digital Sound Engineering
*BHS requires 1 year of either World Language or VAPA, but 14 semesters of any elective. Once you fulfill the requirements for World Lan-
guage, Arts, and PE, all additional classes count towards fulfilling your BHS electives requirements.
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
19
ACADEMIC CHOICE
Academic Choice Required Course Progression
10th 11th 12th
A World History and Cultures (P) United States History (P)
AP United States History (H)(P)
African American History 1/2 (P)
American Literature (P)
AP English Lang. & Comp. (H)(P)
Latinx Literature (P)
African American Literature (P)
LGBTQIA+ Literature (P)
Asian American and Pacific Islander
Literature (P)
The World of Media (P)
B World Literature (P) AP Government & Politics Comparative (H)(P)
Politics and Power (taken with Globaliza-
tion) (P)
Read & Writing the Short Story (P)
AP English Lit. & Comp. (H)(P)
AP Literature & Composition: Patterns in
Black Literature (H)(P)
The World of Media (P)
African American Literature (P)
Latinx Literature (P)
LGBTQIA+ Literature (P)
Asian American and Pacific Islander
Literature (P)
C Math Progression - See page 64
D Chemistry (P)
AP Chemistry (H)
Biology (P)
AP Biology (H)
See Science options starting on pg. 73
Electives (taken concurrently with Biology)
see p.73
E World Language Progression - See page 86
F Visual & Performing Art Electives - See page 78
G Theoretical Psychology (taken with Sociol-
ogy/Anthropology) (P)
The World of Media (P)
The World of Media (P)
Personal Finance (P)
Globalization (taken with Politics and Power)
Economics (P)
AP Economics (H)(P)
See elective options starting on pg. 56
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
academic choice
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
20
academic choice
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
21
Academic Choice
Academic Choice (AC) humanities courses offers a core curriculum while allowing access to
the full range of African American Studies, Visual & Performing Arts, Physical Education,
and World Language classes available at Berkeley High School. The typical Academic Choice
English and Social Science class follows a seminar approach that encourages intellectual
curiosity, analytical thinking, and a close working relationship between student and teacher.
AC courses provide:
a. Strategies that invite students to ask questions and draw
inferences
b. Development of techniques for critical reading and
analytic writing
c. e. f. Encouragement of different levels of questioning
d. Synthesis of perspectives from different points of view
Development of strong written and verbal argumentation
Paths to make a student’s thinking visible
Consistent with our objective of offering a variety of qual-
ity choices to meet the needs of a diverse community, the
AC seeks to prepare students to be eligible for continued
education beyond high school, and to help prepare students
with a strong foundation for the university classroom.
Our teaching strategies reflect rigor and an awareness of a
variety of learning styles. We are committed to arming our
students with the skills and drive to be life-long learners
and critical thinkers.
The Curriculum
Sophomore Year
In their sophomore year, AC students take the 10th-
grade Humanities Core: World Literature and World
History. The academic skills in the sophomore year
build on those developed in U9 and work specifically to
prepare students for success in AP Humanities courses
in their junior year and senior year.
Junior Year
In the junior year AC students continue to develop skills
that will prepare them for college. AC teachers recommend
that students choose the classes that most suit their indi-
vidual interests and passions. While AC teachers strongly
encourage students to consider taking at least one of the AP
humanities courses offered in AC, it is not required.
Senior Year
In the senior year, AC students can choose among a variety
of English electives. These electives allow students to look
more closely at a specific field or subject matter. The courses
deepen student academic skills developed in the previous
years, and help build students towards a level of specificity
they can expect in college. In 12th grade Social Studies, all
AC students are required to take AP Government, and can
choose from one of three economics courses.
Junior and Senior Year:
Academic Choice Electives
All Academic Choice electives receive “g” elective credit
from the University of California. All of the Academic
Choice electives feature one or more of the following
composition components:
•
Students are exposed to the writing process: prewriting,
rough draft, revision, and final draft.
•
Students’ grades are based mostly on the scores they
receive on major written assignments, as well as on and
class participation.
•
Students write essays (750 words or more) in response to
major literary or cinematic works.
Math Options
See Math course descriptions on page 64.
Science Options
See Science course descriptions on page 73.
World Language Options
See Work Language course descriptions on page 86.
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
Sophomore Year Courses
Humanities Core
The sophomore year focuses on further developing stu-
dents academic skills and preparing them for AP courses
in their junior year. In addition to looking at the world
through the study of history, geography, and literature
the year will begin to introduce students to rhetorical
skills. The sophomore year is essential to students as they
plan to further their education beyond high school.
World Literature (P) Year
·
10 Credits
World Literature focuses on building and deepening
students’ critical reading and writing skills. This course
develops these skills through multiple genres includ-
ing poetry, short story, novels, plays, and non-fiction by
authors born outside the United States. Students will
learn more complex literary terms and analysis includ-
ing use of basic rhetorical strategies in speaking and
writing. Students will also participate in creative proj-
ects that emphasize world studies. UC/CSU (b)
World History (P) Year
·
10 Credits
This course covers major themes in modern world his-
tory with an exploration of systems of power, resistance
to power, and methods of social change. Topics include
the age of Revolutions, industrialization and globaliza-
tion, colonization and independence movements, the
rise of Communism and Totalitarianism, and the World
Wars the Industrial Revolution, Imperialism, the rise of
Communism, and the World Wars. There is a focus on
building historical thinking, writing and research skills.
US/CSU (a)
Junior Year Courses
In the junior year, students may choose from several
English courses as well as several history courses.
History Options
U.S. History (P) Year
·
10 Credits
Following State guidelines the U.S. History class spends
one year on U.S. History from 1900 to the present. The
first several weeks of Academic Choice U.S. History
includes an introduction and background to American
History prior to 1900. The first semester ends with the
period just prior to World War II. The second semester
covers the period from World War II to the present. The
last 6 weeks include current historic events. Students
will continue to develop academic skills including anal-
ysis of primary source material, and DBQs. UC/CSU (a)
African American History 1/2 (P) Year · 10 Credits
This course is designed to study the influence of African
upon America and the world. The saga of the African
American is traced from his African origins in Ethiopia
and Egypt through slavery in America to the Civil War,
and up to the “Harlem Renaissance.” The second semester
of this course will examine the accomplishments of Afri-
can Americans from the end of the “Harlem Renaissance”
period through the tumultuous Civil Rights era, and the
Black consciousness movement to the present. This course
may be taken by students in grades 11 and 12 and meets
the UC/CSU US History requirement. UC/CSU (a)
AP U.S. History (H)(P) Year
·
10 Credits
AP US History is a college-level study and analysis of
American history from the era of colonization to the
present that will prepare students to take the national
advanced placement test in May. The course will focus
on the themes and topics outlined in the Grade Eleven
California Social Science content standards cited above.
Students continue to build on the academic skills they
have developed in their freshmen and sophomore years
and can take advantage of a variety of support services
available to help them succeed in AP. UC/CSU (a)
Latinx History (P) Year
· 10 Credits
Latinx History is a course designed to study the history
and influence of Latinxs upon the United States and
beyond. The history is traced from Pre-Columbian life
in the Americas to the present, covering more than 500
years of history. Some major themes and topics include
the complex Chicano-Latino identity, Manifest Destiny
and the Mexican American War, the history of the bor-
der and the displacement and resistance up until the
present. The course promotes critical thinking about
race, and other systems of difference that shape indi-
vidual and group interactions, American identity, and
culture. This course may be taken by students in grades
11–12 and meets the UC/CSU US History requirement
UC/CSU (a)
English Options
AP Language & Composition
(H)(P) Year
·
10 Credits
Students will take a year long course of advanced place-
ment composition that focuses on students analyzing
and interpreting an author’s use of rhetorical strategies
and techniques, and applying them to their own writing.
Students also demonstrate understanding and mastery
of standard written English as well as stylistic matu-
rity in their own writing. Students write in a variety of
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
academic choice
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
22
academic choice
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
23
genres and contexts, both formal and informal, employ-
ing appropriate conventions. The examination for the
AP English Language and Composition course requires
that students recognize and employ a battery of literary
strategies. Teachers work to support all students to be
successful in this rigorous course. UC/CSU (b)
African American Literature (P) Year
·
10 Credits
This African American Studies course is an intensified
study of African American writing from Lucy Terry to
Leroi Jones. A multi-pronged teaching approach is used:
aesthetic, cultural, social, and historical. Open to all
Juniors and Seniors. UC/CSU (b)
Latinx Literature Studies (P) Year
·
10 Credits
This course explores the stories and experiences of
Latinx people around the world with a focus on local
Latinx authors and storytellers. Students will read and
study various texts and genres such as poetry, short
stories, fiction, nonfiction, essays, drama, and film in
order to make meaning of the ways in which society,
politics, culture, and intersectionality shape and inform
our identities. Students also will learn the many ways
authors use texts as a mode of expression, art, and activ-
ism, and be challenged to use what they learn in order
to dive deeper into their own identity exploration. More
so, students will acquire a deep knowledge and under-
standing of the historical factors which have influenced
present-day Latinx communities, especially in the Bay
Area, and gain an appreciation for the many contribu-
tions Latinx writers, historians, and artist have made to
the world. Open to all Juniors and Seniors. UC/CSU (b)
Asian American and Pacific Islander
Literature (P) Year - 10 credits
This course explores contemporary Asian and Pacific
Islander American issues through the works of APIA
authors, poets, essayists, cultural critics and filmmakers.
We will investigate topics such as: APIA representation in
the media, how imperialism has complicated identities,
and where APIAs fall in the Black-White binary. Students
will be exposed to a range of perspectives from various
historical contexts, which will ground their understand-
ing of what it means to be APIA today. Prerequisite:
Open to all Juniors and Seniors. UC/CSU (b) (g)
LGBTQIA+ Literature (P) Year - 10 credits
This course introduces students to LGBTQ+ literature
and culture. Students will explore the personal, cultural,
and political literature and histories of our contempo-
rary understandings of gender and sexuality. Through
this, students will engage with a number of questions:
what does it mean to be LGBTQ? How does queerness/
transness intersect with other identities and movements?
How do we define queer/trans literature and culture?
This interdisciplinary course will span multiple genres:
novels (including graphic), memoirs, drama, podcasts,
oral histories, zines, film, poetry, visual art, and more.
Prerequisite: Open to all Juniors and Seniors.
UC/CSU (b) (g)
American Literature (P) Year
·
10 Credits
This course examines American literature through close
examination of essays. Students also view and analyze
literature through various critical lenses. Students will
continue to develop their critical reading and analytic
skills. Writing in the course focuses on literary analysis
and the development of arguments on and analysis of texts.
Students will also continue to explore rhetorical strategies.
Course materials include writing from a diverse group of
authors. UC/CSU (b)
The World of Media (P) Year
·
10 Credits
World of Media is a film class that introduces students
to the academic study of film. Students will gain expo-
sure to several film theories including Formalist Film
theory, genre theory, cultural film theory, and auteur
theory. Students watch, discuss, analyze, write about
and complete projects on films in each unit considering
how they can apply visual theory in their own presen-
tation of ideas. Students will examine many different
kinds of film including shorts from several genres, film
noir and neo-noir films, modern films by Black directors
or featuring diverse casts, suspense films, and films by a
variety of auteur directors. Additionally, students apply
their theoretical knowledge as they gain experience with
film production by collaborating in groups to write,
plan, film and edit short films. Prerequisite: Open to
all Juniors and Seniors. UC/CSU (b)
Additional electives are listed on page 56.
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
Senior Year Courses
In the senior year the Academic Choice student is
required to take a full year of history and English. Stu-
dents may choose from several of English electives and
may take more than one English class. The required
senior year history courses are AP US Government (one
semester) and an Economics course (one semester).
Required History Courses
All AC students must take AP American
Government
All AC can choose from Economics, AP Econom-
ics, or African American Economics
Economics (P) Semester
·
5 Credits
Economics is a one-semester class that reviews both
macro and micro economic principles. In addition, the
student reviews some general economic theories and
economic history. The goal of the class is to prepare the
student to enter American society with a general knowl-
edge of how our economic system works and to place
that knowledge in some comparative and historical con-
text. UC/CSU (g)
AP Macroeconomics (H)(P) Semester
·
5 Credits
AP Macroeconomics is a one-semester college-level class
that introduces students to the principles that apply to
an economic system as a whole. The course places par-
ticular emphasis on the study of national income and
price-level determination. It also develops students’
familiarity with economic performance measures,
the financial sector, stabilization policies, economic
growth, and international economics. Students learn to
use graphs, charts, and data to analyze, describe, and
explain economic concepts. UC/CSU (g)
African American Economics (P) Semester
·
5 Credits
This dynamic course is designed, first of all, to familiar-
ize students with the concepts and terminology of basic
economics that they may encounter in life or on any
objective test. Secondly, the course acquaints students
with the relation of the African American community
to the American economy as a whole. Finally, the in-
structor examines the role that African Americans have
played in the establishment of the American economy.
Assignments are geared toward providing students with
hands-on experiences of basic economic survival in the
cities of modern America. Assignments focus upon basic
financial planning, credit trap avoidance, real estate and
car purchases, entrepreneurship and meeting the needs
of providing food, shelter and clothing for one’s family
in the 21st century. This course satisfies economics re-
quirement for graduation. UC/CSU (g)
AP US Government & Politics
(H)(P) Semester
·
5 Credits
This one-semester class paired with Economics for the
other semester provides instruction in both historic
and current processes and functions of the United
States government. The primary goal of the class is to
prepare 12th grade students to enter wider US society
as informed and empowered citizens. As an AP level
course, the curriculum is aligned with College Board
AP requirements, and assessments are modeled on the
AP US Government & Politics exam. Students enrolled
in this class, however, are NOT required to take the AP
exam in the spring. However, should they choose to do
so, the course content is designed to ensure they will be
well prepared. This class satisfies graduation require-
ments for government. UC/CSU (a)
History Electives
Globalization (P) Semester
·
5 Credits
Globalization is a one semester course paired with Poli-
tics and Power. In this course, students shall specifically
identify the variety of challenges facing humankind
in an ever-increasing global environment. By defining
the qualities of leadership and effectiveness in existing
decision-making mechanisms, the student shall draft
a more effective decision-making mechanism of world
government. A significant component of this course will
be a student simulation of the decision-making process
within the U.N. General Assembly and Security Coun-
cil. This project will compliment the student simulated
“Model Congress” in Politics and Power. This course
will encourage participation in student government and
service-learning internships. UC/CSU (g)
Politics and Power (P) Semester
·
5 Credits
Politics and Power is a one semester course paired with
Globalization. Students largely run this course. During
the first six weeks, students review, through lecture and
discussion, the inner workings of the U.S. Congress as
it wrestles with contemporary social problems. During
this period, the student’s research important national
issues such as nuclear power, health care, the immigra-
tion debate, etc. The remaining twelve weeks are devoted
to a simulated U.S. Congress with students assuming the
role of specific U.S. Senators or Representatives. Using
information accumulated during the first six weeks, stu-
dents write their own proposed solutions to the nation’s
problems and then attempt to convince other students to
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
academic choice
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
24
academic choice
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
25
vote to help make their proposals law. Once the simula-
tion begins, class activities (floor sessions, committee
meetings, guest speakers, etc.) are planned and executed
by students. The teacher serves as a resource for finding
information and a guide on rules of procedure. Open to
juniors and seniors. UC/CSU (a)
Psychology (P) Semester
·
5 Credits
This is a single semester course, offered in the Fall term,
and paired with Sociology/Anthropology in the Spring.
In this course, students delve into the psychological
mysteries of human behavior, in all its complexity. Top-
ics considered include research methods, experimental
ethics, neurobiology, states of consciousness, sensation
& perception, learning & memory, human development,
personality theory, psychological abnormalities, and
social psychology. The course goals are simple: 1) to pro-
vide students with exposure to a topic usually only stud-
ied at the college level and to help students develop and
refine inter- and intrapersonal skills and understandings
that will facilitate success (in all its myriad definitions)
after high school. Open to juniors and seniors only.
UC/CSU (g)
Sociology (P) Semester
·
5 Credits
This is a single semester course, offered in the Spring
term, and paired with Theoretical Psychology in the
Fall. The course focus is on socio-cultural interpreta-
tions of group behavior, both historic and contempo-
rary. Students will explore various aspects of American
society with an eye to expanding understanding of both
who we are, and why we are. Topics include the “socio-
logical imagination”, systems of socialization and accul-
turalization, social control, social deviance, the role of
race, gender & social class in shaping social behaviors,
and the effect of peer groups, the media, and social con-
formity on social identity. The course goals are to intro-
duce students to sociological/anthropological methods
and perspectives, and to expand students conceptual
thinking skills as they explore two key questions: “who
am I, and how do I fit into society?” Open to juniors and
seniors only. UC/CSU (g)
Latinx History (P) Year
· 10 Credits
Latinx History is a course designed to study the history
and influence of Latinxs upon the United States and
beyond. The history is traced from Pre-Columbian life
in the Americas to the present, covering more than 500
years of history. Some major themes and topics include
the complex Chicano-Latino identity, Manifest Destiny
and the Mexican American War, the history of the border
and the displacement and resistance up until the pres-
ent. The course promotes critical thinking about race,
and other systems of difference that shape individual
and group interactions, American identity, and culture.
This course may be taken by students in grades 11–12 and
meets the UC/CSU US History requirement UC/CSU (a)
Personal Finance: Dream,
Plan, Execute, Thrive (P) Year
· 10 Credits
Graduation is close. Are you ready to be out on your
own? Personal Finance will give you the tools to master
adulting. Learn how to conquer seemingly impossible
dreams, explore a variety of carrer options including
entrepreneurship and create a cover letter and resume.
Once we have defined your dreams and explored a vari-
ety of career paths, you will learn the tools to help make
these dreams a reality. This incliudes creating a budget,
researching banks and credit cards, analyzing student
loans and doing your taxes. The third section of this
class is about financial planning, investing and making
your money work for you. Learn how to master the stock
market, your investment options and the power of com-
pound interest. Finally, you will learn how to protect
your assests through insurance, identity protection and
trusts. In this class you will be expected to execute all
the tools you learn in the class and will create a detailed
financial plan over the course of the year that will allow
you to: Dream, Plan, Execute & Thrive. Open to seniors
only. UC/CSU (g)
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
English Electives
Elective courses are not guaranteed, and whether or not they
are offered largely depends on the number of sign ups.
African American Literature (P) Year
·
10 Credits
This African American Studies course is an intensified
study of African American writing from Lucy Terry to
Leroi Jones. A multi-pronged teaching approach is used:
aesthetic, cultural, social, and historical. Open to all
Juniors and Seniors UC/CSU (b)
AP Literature &
Composition (H)(P) Year
·
10 Credits
This is an Advanced Placement (AP) course for seniors.
The purpose of the AP program is to offer college-level
content to high school students, who can then receive
college credit by earning a sufficiently high score on
the associated exam. The AP English Literature and
Composition exam tests how well students can interpret
and analyze fiction and poetry of recognized literary
merit. But there are many schools of thought as to what
constitutes proper literary interpretation and analysis.
Accordingly, this class is the equivalent of a college sur-
vey course on literary theory, in which students explore
and discuss not only a diverse selection of novels, short
stories, and poems, but also a wide variety of approaches
to literature. UC/CSU (b)
AP Literature & Composition: Patterns in
Black Literature
(H)(P) Year - 10 credits
This course is AP Literature and Composition offered
through the African American Studies Department.
Accordingly, this class is the equivalent of a college
survey course on literary theory with a focus on Black
literature. Through the focus of modern Black writers
and works, students will explore and discuss a diverse
selection of Black novels, short stories, and poems, as
well as a wide variety of approaches to literature (such
as Afrofuturism). The course will delve into and analyze
the societal issues we currently face along with solutions
we can envision for them. This is an Advanced Place-
ment (AP) course for seniors and will prepare students
for the AP Literature exam. Prerequisite: Grade 12.
Students must have taken at least one class in the Afri-
can American Studies Department either previously or
concurrently to take this course. UC/CSU (b)
Latinx Literature Studies (P) Year
·
10 Credits
This course studies Pre-Columbian and contemporary
Chicano and Latino Literature. Students gain exposure
to a wide range of genres such as poetry, short stories,
nonfiction, fiction, biography, memoir, and plays, and
study authors including Gabriel Garcia Marquez, San-
dra Cisneros, Gloria Ánzaldúa, Luis Valdez, and Sonia
Nazario. Students analyze texts to gain a sense of his-
torically underrepresented groups while focusing on
writing, grammar, and critical thinking skills.
In addition, this course also examines the social, politi-
cal, and historical factors which have shaped the present
day Chicano and Latino community, covering the spec-
trum of experiences of our Raza from the Caribbean to
the United States to the bottom of the Americas.
UC/CSU (b)
Reading & Writing
The Short Story (P) Year
·
10 Credits
For students who feel that their essay writing skills for
college are already in good shape and want to develop a
narrative voice, this fiction writing course emphasizes:
1) the crucial relationship between reading and writing
short stories and 2) the influence of renowned writers
on student writers. Concentrating on a different genre
each marking period, students initially study stories by
the masters and then create their own. The focus is on
memoirs and conventional short stories in the fall, and
on mysteries, humorous pieces, and children’s tales in
the spring. Open to seniors only. UC/CSU (b)
The World of Media (P) Year
·
10 Credits
World of Media is a film class that introduces students
to the academic study of film. Students will gain expo-
sure to several film theories including Formalist Film
theory, genre theory, cultural film theory, and auteur
theory. Students watch, discuss, analyze, write about
and complete projects on films in each unit considering
how they can apply visual theory in their own presen-
tation of ideas. Students will examine many different
kinds of film including shorts from several genres, film
noir and neo-noir films, modern films by Black directors
or featuring diverse casts, suspense films, and films by a
variety of auteur directors. Additionally, students apply
their theoretical knowledge as they gain experience with
film production by collaborating in groups to write,
plan, film and edit short films. Prerequisite: Open to
all Seniors and Juniors. UC/CSU (b)
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
academic choice
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
26
academic choice
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
27
Asian American and Pacific Islander
Literature (P) Year - 10 credits
This course explores contemporary Asian and Pacific
Islander American issues through the works of APIA
authors, poets, essayists, cultural critics and filmmakers.
We will investigate topics such as: APIA representation in
the media, how imperialism has complicated identities,
and where APIAs fall in the Black-White binary. Students
will be exposed to a range of perspectives from various
historical contexts, which will ground their understand-
ing of what it means to be APIA today. Prerequisite:
Grade 11 or 12. UC/CSU (b) (g)
LGBTQIA+ Literature (P) Year - 10 credits
This course introduces students to LGBTQ+ literature
and culture. Students will explore the personal, cultural,
and political literature and histories of our contempo-
rary understandings of gender and sexuality. Through
this, students will engage with a number of questions:
what does it mean to be LGBTQ? How does queerness/
transness intersect with other identities and movements?
How do we define queer/trans literature and culture?
This interdisciplinary course will span multiple genres:
novels (including graphic), memoirs, drama, podcasts,
oral histories, zines, film, poetry, visual art, and more.
Prerequisite: Open to all Juniors & Seniors.
UC/CSU (b) (g)
Additional electives are listed on page 56.
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
ARTS & HUMANITIES ACADEMY
aha
AHA Required Course Progressions
10th 11th 12th
A AHA World History AHA United States History B AHA World Literature AHA AP English Language &
Composition (H)
AHA AP American Government (H)
AHA AP English Literature &
Composition (H)
C Math Progression - See page 64
D AHA Honors Human Anatomy and
Physiology (H)
AHA Chemistry AP Chemistry (H)
AP Biology (H)
AP Physics (H)
Adv. Biology
AP Environmental
Science (H)
See other
Science
options
starting
on pg. 73
E World Language Progressions - See page 86
F AHA Art Options
Advanced Creative Arts or
Any VAPA arts elective
AHA Advanced Drawing &
Painting or
Dance
Adv. Theater Projects
AHA Adv. Ceramics
AHA Adv. Photography
AHA AP Studio Art (H) or
Dance
Adv. Theatre
Adv. Photo
See
other Art
options
starting
on pg. 78
G AHA Economics
AHA BEST History/BEST English
See elective options starting on pg. 56
** For placement policies for honors and advanced classes, see page 6.
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
28
aha
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
29
Arts & Humanities
Academy
The Arts and Humanities Academy (AHA), a learning community within Berkeley High
School, provides an innovative, rigorous academic and arts curriculum. As a community of
artists and scholars, AHA students use the lens of the arts to seek creative solutions to aca-
demic and artistic challenges. The curriculum focuses on AHA’s Three Guiding Questions:
▸ How are we scholarly in our art making
and artistic in our scholarship?
▸ How can we use critique to grow as
artists and people?
▸ How can we both reflect and affect our
environment through art?
AHA students learn by doing. Interdisciplinary projects
structure the core of AHA’s educational philosophy, com-
bining Arts, Humanities and Science curricula. Emphasiz-
ing collaborative work, student responsibility and critical
thinking, these projects inspire high levels of achievement
by linking student interest in the arts to all aspects of their
education. Students emerge as seniors with a holistic under-
standing of their environment and the surrounding world.
Critical thinking skills are vital to our students’ develop-
ment as responsible citizens. AHA teaches a school-wide
approach to critique, applying the Studio Habits of Mind
throughout the curriculum. Through these consistent
reflections, students become adept at analyzing an artistic
or academic problem from multiple perspectives: experien-
tial, literal, interpretive, thematic and evaluative. Master-
ing this skill of critical reflection, AHA students become
life long learners and contributing community members.
With just sixty students per grade, students quickly feel
the benefits of a smaller school setting. Throughout their
three years, AHA students study science, English, history,
math and the arts within the learning community; they
select world language and physical education courses from
the many options from individual departments. Advanced
Placement (AP) and honors courses are available in the
arts, English, science, math and social science. AHA
courses meet the California Content Standards and most
meet the UC/CSU entrance requirements; students gradu-
ate from AHA prepared for success in a college or univer-
sity and continued pursuits in the arts.
The Curriculum
AHA’s Guiding Questions
During all three years in AHA students take science,
English, history, math and arts classes within the learn-
ing community. Students take science in AHA during
10th and 11th grade. Each year’s curriculum is formatted
around Guiding Questions that connect the academic cur-
riculum with students’ artistic and psychosocial develop-
ment. Teachers plan curriculum collaboratively, creating
interdisciplinary projects that engage the arts, science and
humanities, while pushing students to reflect deeply on
their related guiding questions.
Guiding Questions:
•
10th Grade: Who am I as an artist? What influences
my perception and guides my expressions? What is
my lens?
•
•
11th Grade: How have artists reflected upon and
contributed to American history and culture? Where
do I stand as an emerging artist in this context?
12th Grade: As an artist, how can I affect my com-
munity and the world in a significant way?
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
The AHA Experience
Upon entering the 10th grade, incoming AHA students
will have the option of choosing from multiple artistic
pathways depending on their interest and medium, with
many choices in both visual and performing arts. Here,
students practice artistic principles that link all of the art
forms and develop a vocabulary for artistic engagement
and aesthetic perception. Academic classes in the 10th
grade include AHA World Literature, AHA World History,
AHA Math, and AHA Honors Anatomy and Physiology.
As 11th and 12th graders, after gaining both experi-
ence and perspective, students enroll in the highest level
classes in their area of specialization. Options include:
AP Visual Arts, Advanced Photography, Advanced
Ceramics, Dance Production, Advanced Afro-Haitian,
Orchestra, Band, or Jazz Ensemble. Academic courses
in the Junior year are AHA AP English Language and
Composition, AHA U.S. History, and AHA Chemistry.
Seniors take AHA AP English Literature and Composi-
tion, AHA AP Government and Economics, and their
AHA Senior Internship Seminar (BEST) class.
Sophomore Year Courses
AHA World Literature (P) Year
·
10 Credits
Humanities: English
This class explores the relationship between stories and
the self: it asks students to examine short stories, novels,
films, graphic novels, visual art, dance, and the theater
to understand how narrative builds our identity and
vice versa. Writings include literary and visual analyses,
creative fiction and artistic expression of academic under-
standing. This course also includes interdisciplinary
projects exploring real-world issues through visual and
performing arts, as well as the written word. UC/CSU (b)
World History (P) Year
·
10 Credits
Humanities: History
This course examines world history through six major
themes: civilizations, religion, economics, imperialism,
revolution, and war. 10th grade students explore each of
these topics through a series of case studies from around
the world. Each semester culminates in an interdisci-
plinary project that integrates content and skills from
World History, World Literature, and Anatomy and
Physiology through work with local artist and profes-
sionals. Students develop critical thinking, reading,
writing, research skills, performative expression, reflec-
tion and communication skills to thrive in our increas-
ingly complex world. UC/CSU (a)
AHA Honors Anatomy and
Physiology (H)(P) Year
·
10 Credits
10th grade students fulfill their Biology Lab Science require-
ment with Honors Human Anatomy and Physiology. This
course focuses on the different systems of the body includ-
ing the cardiovascular, immune, skeletal and muscular
systems and how they have evolved and function together.
It includes multiple dissections, labs, and activities, while
keeping the challenging and rigorous curriculum accessible
to 10th grade students. The human body is of high interest
to students and is very relevant to their lives - additionally,
this class strengthens their foundation for Chemistry in their
11th grade year. UC/CSU (d)
Math
See course descriptions on page 64.
Art Elective Options
Students choose one of the following art electives for
their sophomore year:
Advanced Creative Arts (P) (CTE-Arts, Media,
and Entertainment Sector)
The course of study will focus on line, perspective, shad-
ing techniques, positive/negative space understandings,
and composition. Students coming into the class without
drawing experience will gain the skills needed to render
objects from what they see in reality.
Students will also learn the reductive and additive ele-
ments of sculpture and printmaking. Sculpture is three
dimensional art and printmaking is the process of mak-
ing multiple copies of an image. A common form of
printmaking is screen printing t-shirts. Students in this
course will work with welding, screen-printing, plaster,
etching, clay and linoleum block prints, 3D printing,
laser cutting, and traditional drawing media.
Or, students may choose any Visual or Performing Arts
elective course that is open to sophomores. See page 78 for
a complete list.
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
aha
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
30
aha
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
Junior Year Courses
AHA American Literature (P) Year
·
10 Credits
American Literature examines the fiction, poetry, plays,
radio, news, film, and myth of American Culture. The
class explores what is meant by “American” stories, the
mythology of America and of the American Dream as it
is reflected in our culture. Students write poetry, drama,
literary analysis, persuasive, and personal essays. UC/
CSU (b)
AHA AP Language &
Composition (H)(P) Year
·
10 Credits
All AHA Juniors take AP Language & Composition.
Students are not required to take the AP test. AHA AP
classes are taught at a college level with the necessary sup-
ports for all students to succeed. Students who choose to
take the AP test will receive necessary support to prepare
for the exam. This advanced placement class focuses on
students analyzing and interpreting an author’s use of
rhetorical strategies and techniques , and applying them
to their own writting. This course is a blend of a tradi-
tional AP Language & Composition class with a distinct
AHA ethos and will include an interdisciplinary compe-
nent. UC/CSU (b)
AHA U.S. History (P) Year
·
10 Credits
This course is a critical analysis of the social, economic,
military and political policies and practices of the United
States and the relationship between these policies and
historically marginalized cultures, namely black people.
We examine the past in order to understand the present
and effect the future. This course emphasizes omitted
and distorted parts of American History. UC/CSU (a)
Chemistry (P) Year
·
10 Credits
What non-toxic make-up effects can be used for actors?
How can harmonics relate to atom electronic structure?
The answers to these questions lie in the study of chem-
istry. This course focuses students on the world around
them, equipping them with a basic understanding of
the chemical behavior of matter. Topics include: atomic-
molecular theory, weight relations, the mole concept,
behavior of gases, solutions, the structure of matter, equi-
librium, acid-base theory, oxidation-reduction reactions
and chemical bonding. UC/CSU (d)
Advanced Drawing & Painting AHA Advanced
Drawing and Painting (P) (CTE-Arts, Media,
and Entertainment Sector) Year
·
10 Credits
This class thoroughly explores drawing and touches
on painting and print-making techniques. The focus is
on improving drawing skills by making a connection
between what the eyes see and what the hand records on
paper. Drawing is best learned while translating the three
dimensional to the two dimensional; for this reason we
will draw mostly from life and a little from photographs.
Students will work with form and content: both the draw-
ing and the idea behind the drawing will be emphasized.
Using materials including graphite, paint, color pencil,
charcoal, etching and screen-printing, students develop
visual intelligence by gaining a thorough understanding of
the principles and elements of design. Work generated in
this course will prepare students for Advanced Placement
Art in their senior year. UC/CSU (f)
Math
See course descriptions on page 64.
Electives
Juniors and Seniors in AHA have the possibility of taking all
visual and performing arts classes offered starting on page 78.
Senior Year Courses
AHA AP Literature and
Composition (P) Semester
·
5 Credits
Students are not required to take the AP test. AHA AP
classes are taught at a college level with necessary sup-
ports for all students to succeed. Students who choose to
take the AP test will receive supports to succeed. This is a
college-preparatory AP Literature & Composition class,
designed to help students master skills of literary and criti-
cal analysis and writing. Through this course, students will
be prepared for the AP Literature & Composition test if
they choose to take it, grow in their ability to analyze litera-
ture and media, dramatically improve their writing abil-
ity, and gain the skills and stamina needed to succeed in
college-level humanities coursework. Skill Objectives and
Outcomes: Students will analyze various literary modes,
including but not limited to prose stories, plays, poetry, and
film. Students will most closely examine the literary strate-
gies recommended by the College Board: character, setting,
structure, narration, and figurative language. UC/CSU (b)
Economics (P) Semester
·
5 Credits
This one-semester course introduces students to basic
economic theories and principles as well as economic
history and current economic issues. The course covers a
combination of macro and micro economics, statistical
analysis, personal economic planning, and entrepreneur-
ship. Students apply these skills to projects in which they
pilot a product in collaboration with local entrepreneurs
and pitch a business plan to a panel of local business own-
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
31
ers. The semester culminates in an interdisciplinary proj-
ect with students’ AHA AP Literature and Composition
course in collaboration with local artists. UC/CSU (g)
AHA AP Government (H)(P) Semester
·
5 Credits
Students are not required to take the AP test. AHA
AP classes are taught at a college level with the neces-
sary supports for all students to succeed. Students who
choose to take the AP test will receive necessary support
to prepare for the exam. This one-semester course exam-
ines the historical underpinnings and modern functions
of United States government systems. Students will
explore government on local, state and national levels,
dive deeply into analysis of the U.S. constitution, and
investigate ways in which they can influence policy out-
comes. The semester culminates in an interdisciplinary
project with students’ AHA AP Literature and Composi-
tion course in collaboration with local artists. Students
will further develop critical thinking, analysis, complex
reading strategies, and advocacy tactics. UC/CSU (a)
AHA AP Studio Art (H)(P)(CTE-Arts, Media,
and Entertainment Sector) Year
·
10 Credits
The Advanced Placement Studio Art program enables
highly motivated students to do college-level work in
studio art while still in high school. AP Studio Art is
not based on a written examination: Instead, candidates
submit a portfolio of work for evaluation at the end of
the school year. Students must develop discipline, per-
sonal insight, critical judgment, and technical skill nec-
essary for the preparation of this portfolio. Students sign
up for AP test in May. Prerequisite: AHA Advanced
Drawing and Painting. UC/CSU (f)
Math
For course descriptions see page 64.
Senior Science Options
AHA students who successfully complete Anatomy and
Physiology and Chemistry with final grades of “C” or bet-
ter have the option to take additional science classes like
AP Environmental Science, AP Biology, AP Chemistry or
AP Physics. See course descriptions on page 73.
Electives
See additional elective offerings starting on page 56.
Senior Internship Seminar
BEST-English (P) Fall · 5 Credits
BEST-History (P) Spring · 5 Credits
Students in this course select an individualized intern-
ship and spend one day a week interning for periods 4–6.
Students reflect on this experience and share learning
with classmates. This course also provides extensive sup-
port for career development, life after high school, and the
college process: the search, application, decision-making,
and financial aid. Berkeley Experiential Senior Transition
(BEST) students receive one semester of high school social
studies credit and one semester of high school English
credit. UC/CSU (g)
aha
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
32
amps
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26 33
ACADEMY OFMEDICINE & PUBLIC SERVICE
AMPS Required Course Progressions
10th 11th 12th
A AMPS World History & Cultures AMPS AP United States History (H) AMPS AP American Government (H)
B AMPS World Literature Literacy, Advocacy, and Public Service—
Advanced English in Public Service
Work (H)
Reading and Writing Your Way to a
Healthier World: Advanced English and
Public Health (H)
C Math Progression - See page 64
D Biological Health Sciences Biological Health Sciences, (CTE)
*Denotes 25–26 only
See Science options starting
on pg. 73
E World Language - See page 86
F Visual & Performing Art Electives - See page 78
G Community Service Professions:
A Sociological Perspective (CTE)
Community Health Nutrition and
Wellness (CTE)
Biotechnology 1/2
AMPS Economics
Honors Forensic Science (CTE)
TheoPsych/SocAnth
ROP Fire Science (CTE)
See elective options starting on pg. 56
AMPS PE: Team Sports—Team
Activities and Personal Fitness
Courses in bold offered within AMPS. All other options available from the school at large.
CTE indicates a Career Technical Course teaching essential content and skills for a health science profession.
** For placement policies for honors and advanced classes, see pages 6.
Academy of Medicine and Public Service
AMPS Program
The Academy of Medicine and Public service is a health pathway preparing stu-
dents for life through engaging curriculum and real world experiences. We are a
community of learners working together as a strong core team of teachers, stu-
dents and parents to ensure the success of all of our students.
▸
▸
▸
▸
Our college curriculum meets and exceeds UC
requirements including:
Three years of history and English include Honors
English courses and Advanced Placement (AP) history
courses in both junior and senior year.
Electives include Community Service Professions,
Public and Community Health, and Applied Medical
English.
We have two sciences through junior year: chemistry
and biological health with an emphasis on anatomy.
Seniors can take Honors Anatomy and AP environmen-
tal science.
Three-years of math culminate senior year AP Statistics
and AP Calculus.
All juniors have an internship to explore careers and
life skills, and our seniors take a class, Applied Medical
English that includes college application support, medi-
cal ethics curriculum, and a capstone project on an area
of interest.
Our goal is to prepare students for college and
careers and to empower them to become leaders in
their community and agents of change. In addition,
AMPS prioritizes relationship building amongst stu-
dents and community members through overnight
retreats, field trips, guest speakers, clubs and more.
AMPS teachers challenge all students
to think critically and to build on their
individual capacities. As much as possi-
ble, core teachers continue to work with
the same Academy students for two or
more years. Our staff works closely with
students, families, and the community
to create a learning environment that
supports success for every student.
Berkeley City College - Dual Enrollment
AMPS students have the chance to earn college credit
while taking BHS courses through Berkeley City College
dual enrollment. Classes include Counseling, Career
and Life Planning, Health Ed and Child Development.
This dual enrollment opportunity is one of many AMPS
programs that support our students in becoming college
and career ready.
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
amps
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
34
amps
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
35
AMPS Habit of Mind Chart
AMPS students strive to be: Driving Questions
By asking:
Whole School Outcomes
So they learn to:
Inquisitive "What if . . . ?" Hypothesize and gather evidence
Critical Thinkers “What causes what?” Find patterns and make connections
Open minded “What do others think, experience, or care
about?”
Consider multiple perspectives
Creative “How can I approach it differently?” Construct and express meaning and knowledge
Actively engaged “Why does it matter?” Be self-determined individuals who can communi-
cate and use what they know, value and need.
Conscientious “How can my work contribute to our community?” Place their work in a community context, take respon-
sibility for their impact on others, and be conscious
agents of change.
Sophomore Year Courses
World Literature (P) Year · 10 Credits
This one-year course is designed for all sophomore stu-
dents. The focus is on novels, poetry, and plays from
authors born outside the United States. Academy teach-
ers integrate the thematic units in World Literature with
those in World History to allow students to analyze litera-
ture in its historic and cultural context. Students develop
critical reading and writing skills, as well as creative proj-
ects that emphasize world studies. UC/CSU (b)
World History & Cultures (P) Year · 10 Credits
This year-long survey course studies the last 200 years of
human history, with a lens on health issues. Students are
challenged to analyze the relationship of historical events
to current events and to trace the historic development of
modern problems, particularly those that affect human
health. This course is integrated thematically with World
Literature so students get a rich analysis of world history
and cultures. This course emphasizes analytical skills
through expanding communication skills, such as speak-
ing, writing, and listening in small groups and in whole
classroom settings. Students develop critical thinking
skills and the course culminates with an interdisciplinary
project exploring a historical event, emphasizing students’
research, writing and technology skills. UC/CSU (a)
Math
For course descriptions see page 64.
Chemistry (P) Year · 10 Credits
This course covers the basic understanding of the
chemical behavior of matter. Topics include atomic and
molecular theory, solutions and equilibrium, periodic
properties, the behavior of gases, bonding and common
reactions, acid-base reactions, and oxidation-reduction
reactions. Students are introduced to stoichiometry, the
mathematics behind chemistry. UC/CSU (d)
Junior Year Courses
Literacy, Advocacy and Public Service:
Advanced English in Public Service Work (P)(H)
Length of Course: Full Year (2 semesters; 3 trimesters;
4 quarters)
Subject Area-Discipline: English (“b”)
UC Honors designation: Honors
CTE Sector: Health Science and Medical Technology
CTE Pathway: Public and Community Health
Grade Level(s): 11
Through this upper division English Course, students
hone their reading, writing, speaking and presenta-
tion skills to become effective and empowered agents of
change as they explore the impact that the field of Public
Administration and Social Services has on their com-
munity, state and country. Through close reading and
analysis of informational and literary texts written for
a variety of purposes and audiences, students examine
instances when personal identity becomes political and
the way in which societal issues are influenced by and
can be addressed through public administration, social
service agencies and community organizations. Because
writing and communication are just as critical to effec-
tive advocacy as research, synthesis and close reading,
students themselves compose text for real audiences and
authentic purposes from using a variety of digital media
to inform those for whom social services has direct and
indirect impact to making public arguments to effect
positive change.
AMPS AP U.S. History (P) (H) Year · 10 Credits
AMPS AP U.S. History is a college level course where
students use primary source documents, oral histories,
literature, art and historical texts to explore United
States history from colonization to today through mul-
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
tiple perspectives. AMPS teachers will prepare students
to take the national advanced placement test in May.
In addition, students will integrate the eras explored
in U.S. history with themes and works in American
Literature. The course emphasizes historical thinking,
research and communication skills, developing original
interpretations of the past and making connections to
the present. UC/CSU (a)
Biological Health Sciences
(P) (CTE) Year · 10 Credits
This biology lab science course combines human physi-
ology with the basic concepts and principles of biology.
The content of the course focuses primarily on the phys-
iological, biological, and structural details of the human
body including a study of the body systems. This course
combines scientific study with practical applications of
health science. This course is taught using lecture and
laboratory exercises including dissections. A variety of
resources (Internet, medical journals and medical pro-
fessionals) will be accessed for the purpose of creating
written and oral presentations that demonstrate stu-
dents’ knowledge and application of scientific principles.
Upon successful completion of the course, students will
be eligible to receive an American Heart Association
Pulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) certificate. UC/CSU (d)
Community Service: A Sociological
Perspective (P) (CTE) Year · 10 Credits
A sociological perspective is explored and coupled with
internships to introduce students to professions in
health, law, government and education. From October-
May, two class periods a week are devoted to intern-
ships, although some take place at different or additional
times. In the classroom, students study sociological
theory, social institutions, the core ideas and contro-
versies in human service, the range of human service
professions, and the introductory skills required of
human services professionals, such as communication
skills, objective observation and reporting, accessing
community resources, cultural competency and profes-
sional ethics. Students read important sociological texts
and write college-level essays. Students also engage in
college preparatory activities and develop portfolios that
include documentation of their internships. UC/CSU (g)
Senior Year Courses
Reading and Writing Your Way to a Healthier
World: Advanced English and Public Health
(P)(H)
Length of Course: Full Year (2 semesters; 3 trimesters;
4 quarters)
Subject Area-Discipline: English (“b”)
UC Honors designation: Honors
CTE Sector: Health Science and Medical Technology
CTE Pathway: Community and Public Health
Grade Level(s): 12
Reading and Writing Your Way to a Healthier World is
a college preparatory grade 12 English course integrated
with Health Science and Medical Technology CTE stan-
dards and intended to provide students with an increas-
ing and deepening knowledge of English Language
Arts through the lens of a public health professional.
Through research and study of complex literature and
informational texts, students will develop an under-
standing of the causes and effects of public health issues,
empowering them with the knowledge and skills to
facilitate change through a variety of roles in the public
health field. They use their reading, writing, speaking
and listening skills effectively in order to evaluate health
disparities and facilitate ethical interventions, adapting
communication to audience and purpose. The course
culminates with an enhanced awareness of issues in the
healthcare field that empowers students to become pub-
lic health leaders and professionals.
Economics (P) Semester · 5 Credits
In this one-semester course, students study how people
organize themselves to make a living, with an emphasis
on how the capitalist system is organized and how it is
changing in this era of globalization. Students explore
how American capitalism addresses human needs, how
events that affect the U.S. economy impact people’s lives,
and what ethical issues confront U.S. workers. They
learn to use graphing to predict the impact of world
events on markets and on societies. Through an inte-
grated English/history project, students write a compre-
hensive, analytical college-level research paper explor-
ing the interplay of social and economic structures in
American society in an industry field of their choice.
UC/CSU (g)
AMPS AP Government (P) (H) Semester · 5 Credits
This one semester college level course provides instruc-
tion in both historic and current functions of the
United States government. AMPS students who take
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
amps
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
36
amps
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
37
this Advanced Placement course will learn how to think
critically about how the U.S. government operates while
becoming informed and empowered citizens. In addi-
tion, students will explore government on the local,
state and federal level, analyze the U.S. constitution and
understand elections and how they influence policy.
Students are not required to take the AP test, but will be
given the necessary support to take it if they choose to.
UC/CSU (a)
Honors Forensic Science
(CTE) (H) Year
·
10 Credits
Advanced Forensic Science is a fourth year rigorous,
interdisciplinary science course preparing students for
post-secondary college or career work in the areas of
forensic science and/or the criminal justice system. The
course will emphasize interdisciplinary coursework in
anatomy, biochemistry, molecular biology, chemistry,
physics, and earth laboratory sciences. Students will
apply the science and engineering practices to foren-
sic analysis, procedures and principles of crime scene
investigation, physical and trace evidence, and the law
and courtroom procedures from the perspective of the
forensic scientist. This is the capstone course in our
Career Technical Education pathway. Prerequisites:
AMPS students will have taken Physics in the 9th Grade
(U9), Biohealth in the 10th Grade, and Chemistry in the
11th Grade.
These school-wide electives align with the AMPS curricu-
lum and are accessible to seniors:
Emergency Medical Technician (CTE) Year
·
10 Credits
Fire Science (CTE) Year
·
10 Credits
Math Options
See course descriptions on page 64.
Senior Science Options
AMPS students who complete Physics, Chemistry
and Bio Health with final grades of “C” or better have
the option to take additional science classes like AP
Environmental Science, AP Biology, AP Chemistry or
AP Physics. See course descriptions on page 73.
Electives
See Elective offerings starting on page 56.
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
BERKELEY INTERNATIONAL HIGH SCHOOL
bihs
BIHS Required Course Progressions
10th 11th 12th
A Global History (P) B Global Literature (P) C Math 2 (P) IB-HL History of the Americas 1 (HL)
(sem 1)(H)(P)
IB-HL English 1 (HL)(H)(P) Math 3 (P) IB-HL History of the Americas 2 (HL)(H)(P)
American Government (sem 2)(P)
IB-HL English 2 (HL)(H)(P)
AP Calculus AB (H)(P), AP Statistics (H)(P),
IB-SL Math Applications (SL)(P), or
IB-SL Math Analysis (SL)(H)(P)
Advanced Math 2 (P) Advanced Math 3 (H)(P) AP Calculus BC (H)(P), IB-HL Math Analysis
(HL)(P),
AP Statistics (H)(P), AP Calculus AB (H)(P),
IB-SL Math Applications (SL)(P), or
IB-SL Math Analysis (SL)(H)(P)
D Chemistry (P)
AP Chemistry (H)(P)
Biology (P)
AdvBiology (P)
IB-Biology (SL)(H)(P)
IB-SL Environmental Systems & Societies
(SL)(H)(P)
*Electives (taken concurrently with
courses above):
IB-SL Computer Science (SL)(P)(CTE)
Biotechnology 1/2 (P)
IB-SL Environmental Systems & Societies
(SL)(H)(P)
IB-Biology (SL)(P)(H)
Biotechnology 3/4 (H)(P)
IB-SL Computer Science (SL)(H)(P)(CTE)
IB-HL Computer Science (HL)(H)(P)(CTE)
For all science electives, see page 73.
E For World Language Progressions, see page 86
F IB-SL Music (SL)(H)(P)
IB-SL Visual Arts (SL)(H)(P)
IB-SL Art History (SL)(H)(P)
IB-SL Film (SL)(H)(P)(CTE)
IB-SL Music (SL)(H)(P)
IB-HL Music (HL)(H)(P)
IB-SL Visual Arts (SL)(H)(P)
IB-HL Visual Arts (SL)(H)(P)
IB-SL Art History (SL)(H)(P)
IB-SL Film (SL)(H)(P)(CTE)
IB-HL Film (HL)(H)(P)(CTE)
For Visual & Performing Art Electives, see page 78
G Comparative Values &
Beliefs (P)/Economics (P)
IB-SL Computer Science (SL)(P)(CTE)
IB-SL Economics (SL)(H)(P)
IB-SL Social & Cultural Anthropology (SL)(H)
(P)
IB-SL Computer Science (SL)(H)(P)(CTE)
IB-HL Computer Science (HL)(H)(P)(CTE)
IB-SL Economics (SL)(H)(P)
IB-SL Social & Cultural Anthropology (SL)
(H)(P)
For elective options, see page 56.
Theory of Knowledge (H)(P)(sem 2) BIHS
**For placement policies for honors and
advanced classes, see page 6.
Theory of Knowledge (H)(P)(sem 1)
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual and
Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical Educa-
tion; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
38
bihs
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
39
Berkeley International
High School
Berkeley International High School (BIHS) is a small learning community within Berkeley
High School, focusing on holistic learning and building international mindedness for students
in grades ten through twelve. The three-year interdisciplinary curriculum has a focus on
cultures, history, artistic expression, and political, economic, and belief systems. Students
also carry out Creativity, Activity, Service (CAS) experiences and projects and can complete
an extended essay research process so as to be college, career, and life ready upon graduation.
Students will graduate with critical thinking skills and the knowledge to participate
confidently in our interdependent world.
BIHS, an authorized International Baccalaureate school,
prepares students for the option to participate in the IB
Diploma Programme, an internationally recognized cur-
riculum in 11th and 12th grade that is highly regarded by
U.S. universities and colleges around the world. During
the course of the three years, students in BIHS develop
strong relationships with their teachers who help to build
students’ sense of identity and cultural awareness. The
integrated 3-year study of humanities focuses on the study
of geographical regions and elements of culture includ-
ing literature, art, history, economics, and beliefs. It then
progresses through the study of nations and the dynamics
of global relationships, building in complexity each year.
Balancing the richness of Berkeley High School’s elective
options with the value and challenge of the IB curriculum,
BIHS creates a supportive community where diversity of
perspective is valued and encouraged. With an emphasis
on student centered learning, including cooperative groups
and classroom presentations, BIHS students develop strong
speaking and leadership skills. They also develop the abil-
ity to bring perspective to conversation and participate
confidently with people of all backgrounds in our increas-
ingly complex world.
Tenth grade students take two of their classes with the same
core of students to provide community and support. As our
students reach the upper grades, they develop the skills of
inquiry through guided independent research and experien-
tial learning. Additional community building, student lead-
ership, and support programs are in place to further ensure
a sense of belonging and success for all BIHS students.
IB Learner Profile
As an International Baccalaureate school, BIHS develops
internationally minded people who, recognizing their
common humanity, strive to create a better and more
peaceful world. The IB Learner Profile, described below,
is a common language across IB courses that guides our
staff and students in our mission.
IB learners strive to be:
Inquirers
They develop their natural curiosity. They acquire the
skills necessary to conduct inquiry and research and
show independence in learning. They actively enjoy
learning and this love of learning will be sustained
throughout their lives.
Knowledgeable
They explore concepts, ideas, and issues that have local
and global significance. In so doing, they acquire in-
depth knowledge and develop understanding across a
broad and balanced range of disciplines.
Thinkers
They exercise initiative in applying thinking skills criti-
cally and creatively to recognize and approach complex
problems, and make reasoned, ethical decisions.
Communicators
They understand and express ideas and information
confidently and creatively in more than one language
and in a variety of modes of communication. They work
effectively and willingly in collaboration with others.
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
Principled
They act with integrity and honesty, with a strong sense
of fairness, justice and respect for the dignity of the
individual, groups, and communities. They take respon-
sibility for their own actions and the consequences that
accompany them.
Open-minded
They understand and appreciate their own cultures and
personal histories, and are open to the perspectives,
values, and traditions of other individuals and commu-
nities. They are accustomed to seeking and evaluating a
range of points of view, and are willing to grow from the
experience.
Caring
They show empathy, compassion, and respect towards
the needs and feelings of others. They have a personal
commitment to service, and act to make a positive dif-
ference to the lives of others and to the environment.
Risk-takers
They approach unfamiliar situations and uncertainty
with courage and forethought, and have the indepen-
dence of spirit to explore new roles, ideas, and strategies.
They are brave and articulate in defending their beliefs.
Balanced
They understand the importance of intellectual, physi-
cal, and emotional balance to achieve personal well-
being for themselves and others.
Reflective
They give thoughtful consideration to their own learn-
ing and experience. They are able to assess and under-
stand their strengths and limitations in order to support
their learning and personal development.
The Curriculum
Sophomore Year
In tenth grade, BIHS students take Global Literature,
Global History, a semester of Comparative Values and
Beliefs, and a semester of Comparative Economics.
These courses focus on research skills, vocabulary devel-
opment, and prepare students for the analytical think-
ing their junior and senior years will require. Students
also take math, chemistry, and are encouraged to take a
world language.
Junior and Senior Years
In the eleventh grade, all BIHS students take one year of
IB higher level English. They will transition from one
semester of IB higher level History in the fall semester
to Theory of Knowledge (TOK) in the spring semes-
ter. TOK is a two-semester interdisciplinary class that
explores the nature of knowledge across multiple sub-
jects and prepares students for intellectually rigorous
discussions at the college level. In the twelfth grade stu-
dents will continue with year-long higher level English
and History classes. Students will also take the second
semester of TOK in the fall and a semester of American
Government in the spring.
In addition to the core classes in the junior and senior
years, BIHS students complete two other unique ele-
ments allowing them to broaden learning experi-
ences outside of the classroom. Each student in BIHS
researches a topic of their choice in junior year and IB
Diploma candidates complete a large “Extended Essay”
in 12th grade. Students also complete the Creativity,
Action, Service (BIHS CAS) component beginning the
first day of junior year through the senior year (see BHIS
CAS below).
Creativity, Action, Service (BIHS CAS)
Although not a course, BIHS CAS is an essential element
to every students’ experience in BIHS. Students are
involved in a range of activities alongside their junior
and senior academic studies. BIHS CAS enables students
to enhance their interpersonal development through
experiential learning. Students are required to keep an
extra-curricular portfolio in these three categories: 1)
physical activity, 2) service, and 3) expression of cre-
ativity. Through the activities, students should develop
greater awareness of themselves and concern for others,
as well as the ability to work cooperatively with other
people. Students develop their own plan to complete the
BIHS CAS requirement with the help of the IB coordina-
tor. This project provides an opportunity for leadership
experience and fits naturally with many students’ interests.
International Baccalaureate Diploma
BIHS students may choose to meet the requirements
for the International Baccalaureate Diploma. The IB
Diploma is an internationally recognized achievement
which may earn students up to a year’s worth of credit
at certain colleges. Aside from completing the standard
BIHS graduation requirements of BIHS CAS, and the
Theory of Knowledge courses, students who choose to
pursue the diploma need to complete an Extended Essay,
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
bihs
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
40
bihs
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
41
and end of the year exams in six different subject areas,
(English, history, math, science, world language, and an
elective). A minimum of three exams and a maximum
of four exams will be taken at the higher level, leaving
two to three exams to be taken at the standard level. Two
standard level (SL) exams may be taken in the junior
year and all higher level (HL) exams are taken in the
senior year. Students may choose to take a second lan-
guage, a second science, IB Economics, IB Social and
Cultural Anthropology, IB Music, IB Visual Arts, or IB
Art History their elective option. Alternatively, students
can choose to earn an IB certificate for college credit in
any of the IB courses offered at Berkeley High School.
Note that IB course work and exams only happen in 11th
and 12th grade.
Sophomore Year Courses
Global History (P) Year
·
10 Credits
This course covers major themes in modern world his-
tory, including the age of Revolutions, the industrial rev-
olution, colonization and imperialism and its effects on
the colonized, the rise of Communism and Totalitarian-
ism, and the World Wars. Emphasis is placed on histori-
cal thinking skills and historical perspectives. There is a
focus on building historical writing and research skills.
This course is thematically and regionally integrated
with the Global Literature and Comparative Values/
Comparative Economics courses. The course meets the
California State Standards for 10th grade Modern World
History. UC/CSU (a)
BIHS Global Literature (P) Year
·
10 Credits
Global Literature focuses on how texts shape our under-
standing of global issues. Students learn the conventions
of different text types: stories, film, comics, novels, mem-
oirs, song lyrics, and poetry. They also read options and
articles to contextualize the global issues in each unit.
Students read, write and talk about the impact of time
and place on a text and a reader’s interpretation. Not only
do they learn to write literary arguments, but they also
create original work. In this class, students learn to think
like writers. They reflect on the writing process, revise
their work, and learn strategies to communicate their
ideas with clarity. UC/CSU (b)
Comparative Values and Beliefs
(P) Semester
·
5 Credits
The aim of this course is to analyze the values and
beliefs that shape the world we live in by exploring
and reflecting on the values and beliefs that we hold
as individuals. Students will learn how to formulate
an evidence-based opinion and discuss, critique, and
debate different worldviews and belief systems. Students
research different religions and explore how worldviews
permeate our modern culture through media, and how
those worldviews and belief systems impact society in
various ways. By the end of this course, students will
have a basic knowledge of common philosophical and
theological terminology that will allow them to continue
to explore these topics in more depth throughout their
life. Most importantly, they will explore these concepts
with an open-minded and empathetic approach that
empowers them to have challenging and productive con-
versations. UC/CSU (g)
Economics (P) Semester
·
5 Credits
Sophomore Economics provides students with an intro-
duction to many of the basic concepts and functions
of economics. The primary goals of this course are to
foster basic economic literacy and thinking skills that
will enable students to think critically and to make more
informed personal and public decisions. Students will
learn how to look at the world through an economic lens
and to use that lens to come up with solutions to prob-
lems affecting the world around us through several ‘real
world’ projects. This class also helps provide students
with a very strong foundation of economic knowledge
and understanding should they choose to pursue more
advanced economics courses in the future. UC/CSU (g)
Math Options
See course descriptions on page 64.
Science Options
See course descriptions on page 73.
Junior Year Courses
IB-HL History of the Americas 1
(HL)(H)(P) Fall Semester
·
5 Credits
This is a three-semester course for all Berkeley Interna-
tional High School students (1st semester of 11th grade
and two semesters in 12th grade). It involves a thorough
examination of our modern world with an emphasis on
the interaction of people and events; the formation of
students’ own opinions of events; and analysis of the pro-
gression of history over time. The primary aim and focus
of the course is to guide students towards independent
historical analysis. Skills emphasized include: primary
and secondary source analysis; formation and comple-
tion of independent research; understanding of historical
cause and effect; ability to articulate knowledge and opin-
ions orally and in writing; synthesis of information, and
the ability to use that information to analyze new infor-
mation. The junior year utilizes a thematic approach and
focuses on the 20th century and social movements and
civil rights in the United States. UC/CSU (a)
IB-HL English 1 (HL)(H)(P) Year
·
10 Credits
In the first year of this two-year language and literature
course, students will study a variety of literary and non-
literary texts in connection to three big topics: Power,
Politics, and Justice, Culture, Identity and Community,
and Beliefs, Values, and Education. In this course,
students zoom in and consider how an author creates
meaning through literary or non-literary features, tech-
niques, and devices. Students will complete a variety of
different tasks including group commentaries, Socratic
seminars, formal written responses and creative proj-
ects. The course culminates in a final Individual Oral
Commentary which is a critical examination of two
texts connected to a common global issue. UC/CSU (b)
Theory of Knowledge
(H)(P) Spring Semester
·
5 Credits
Theory of Knowledge, often shortened to TOK, is a cen-
tral element of BIHS, encouraging students to think crit-
ically about knowledge itself. Having gained extensive
knowledge over their life (both in and out of school),
students are asked to reflect and question the certainty
of that knowledge. Students investigate not only what
they know, but also how they know. An essential ques-
tion this semester is, “What are the ways we come to
know something?” The class emphasizes the roles of
reason, emotion, intuition, perception, and language in
the acquisition of knowledge. Students begin TOK in
the 2nd semester of their junior year (following the 1st
semester of History of the Americas). UC/CSU (g)
Senior Year Courses
Theory of Knowledge
(H) (P) Fall Semester
·
5 Credits
The second semester of Theory of Knowledge (TOK) con-
tinues from the first semester, encouraging students to
think critically about knowledge and the ways education
works. Again the class focuses on reflection and discussion.
This semester the class focuses on what we know, rather
than how we know it. TOK examines how subjects such
as math, science, and history come to the knowledge they
have. An essential question this semester is, “How reliable
is the knowledge we say we have?” TOK is completed dur-
ing the 1st semester of the senior year. Students take Amer-
ican Government in the 2nd semester. UC/CSU (g)
American Government (P) Spring Semester
·
5 Credits
This course focuses on the nature of government, work-
ing towards understanding how various contemporary
political systems work. Focus is on current issues as
Congress, the presidency, state legislature, and the judi-
cial system address them. With a hands-on approach,
students will prepare arguments, debate social and
political issues, investigate current events, and simulate
various elements of government. UC/CSU (a)
IB-HL History of the Americas 2
(HL)(H)(P) Year ·
10 Credits
This is a three-semester course for all Berkeley Interna-
tional High School students (1st semester of 11th grade
and two semesters in 12th grade). It involves a thorough
examination of our modern world with an emphasis on
the interaction of people and events; the formation of
students’ own opinions of events; and analysis of the pro-
gression of history over time. The primary aim and focus
of the course is to guide students towards independent
historical analysis. Skills emphasized include: primary
and secondary source analysis; formation and comple-
tion of independent research; understanding of histori-
cal cause and effect; ability to articulate knowledge and
opinions orally and in writing; synthesis of information;
and the ability to use that information to analyze new
information. Students will complete a historical investiga-
tion. This course focuses on the effects of democratic and
authoritarian governments have on people and the rela-
tionship between rights and protest. This course chooses
several case studies to investigate in depth. At the end of
this course students may choose to take the IB HL His-
tory of the Americas exam or no exam at all. If students
pass this exam they will earn an IB certificate and have
the possibility of earning college credit. UC/CSU (a)
IB-HL English 2 (HL)(H)(P) Year ·
10 Credits
In the second year of this two-year language and litera-
ture course, students will study a variety of literary and
non-literary texts. First semester students will study
how language develops in specific cultural contexts and
shapes individual and group identity. Students read and
discuss a range of authors and perspectives. Then they
select one author’s body of work, craft a line of inquiry,
and write a formal essay analyzing the broad authorial
choices. Second semester students will read and discuss
three major literary works, some of them in transla-
tion, in order to understand how attitudes and beliefs
are conveyed through language, structure, style, and
technique. By the end of the course, students will be able
to take the IB HL Language and Literature exam, which
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
bihs
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
42
bihs
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
43
consists of two papers: guided textual analysis of two
non-literary texts, and a literary argument essay on two
literary works. UC/CSU (b)
Senior Math Options
IB-SL Math Applications and interpretations
(SL)(P) Year
·
10 Credits
This course is open to seniors only and includes the
study of circular, polynomial, exponential, logarith-
mic, rational, and radical functions, polar equations
and complex numbers, vectors, simple probability and
data analysis, limits, continuity, and simple derivatives.
The course develops the skills needed to cope with the
mathematical demands of a technological society with
an emphasis on the application of math to real-life situ-
ations. Students are presumed to have knowledge of lin-
ear, quadratic, exponential, and logarithmic equations,
matrix arithmetic, elementary functions, graphing
complex numbers, counting, and probability. They will
be required to learn the prerequisite topics to a greater
depth and degree of formality. Students will be able to
take the IB SL Math Applications exam after completion
of this course. A graphing calculator is recommended.
Prerequisite: Grade 12 and completion of Math 2
with “C” or better required. UC/CSU (c)
IB-SL Math Analysis and approaches
(SL)(P) Year
·
10 Credits
This second year of a two-year sequence (Math 3 is the
first course) covers function analysis, trigonometric func-
tions and graphs, right triangle and wrapping function
trigonometry, including law of sines and cosines, right tri-
angles, trigonometric identities, complex numbers, polar
graphing, DeMoivre’s theorem, the Binomial Theorem,
differential and integral calculus, and some elementary
statistics. The goal of this course is to develop analytical
and technical skills in students that may be applied in a
variety of academic settings from social science to engi-
neering and physics. SL Mathematics covers topics with a
high degree of mathematical rigor with analytical proofs
of theorems presented where appropriate. Students will
apply topics to real world problems and problem solving
settings. Applied problem sets and projects may periodi-
cally be assigned to prepare students for diploma program
assessments. They will be encouraged to develop an appre-
ciation of the global nature of mathematics and the contri-
butions that have been made by persons from a variety of
cultures. Students will be capable of taking the IB SL Math
Analysis exam in the spring of their senior year. A graph-
ing calculator is recommended. Prerequisite: Grade 12
and completion of Math 3 with a “C” or better. UC/CSU (c)
IB-HL Math Analysis and approaches
(HL)(H)(P) Year
·
10 Credits
This second year of a two-year sequence (Advanced Math
3 is the first course) that covers differential and integral
calculus and their applications along with infinite series
(specifically Taylor and Maclaurin). The goal of this
course is to develop analytical and technical skills in stu-
dents that may be applied in a variety of academic settings
from social science to engineering and physics. HL Math-
ematics covers topics with a high degree of mathematical
rigor with analytical proofs of theorems presented where
appropriate. Students will apply topics to real-world prob-
lems and problem-solving settings. Students will be pre-
pared for the IB HL Math Analysis exam in the spring of
their senior year. It is considered an Honors course by the
UC/CSU system. A graphing calculator is required. Pre-
requisite: Grade 12 and completion of Advanced Math
3 with a “B” or better. UC/CSU (c)
Additional Math Options are listed on
page 64.
Junior and Senior Science Options
IB-SL Biology (SL)(H)(P) Year
·
10 Credits
This course provides students with an in-depth study of
biological concepts and principles. IB-SL Biology includes
biochemistry, cell biology, classic genetics, molecular
genetics, biotechnology, and evolution. The course focuses
on the structure and function of living organisms and the
interactions between organisms and their environment. It
includes an in-depth study of plants and animals, includ-
ing evolutionary relationships, anatomy and physiology,
and the principles of ecology. There is a strong component
emphasizing the process of scientific inquiry. Students
will be capable of taking the IB SL Biology exam in the
spring of their junior or senior year. Prerequisite:
Completion of Physics 1 and a “C” or better in Chemistry.
Students who have no prior high school science experi-
ence or a different high school science experience must
meet with the IB Biology teacher before enrolling in this
class. UC/CSU (d)
IB-SL Environmental Systems
& Societies (SL)(P) Year
·
10 Credits
This course provides students with a perspective of the
interrelationships between environments and the societ-
ies in which we live. Students will be asked to examine
their own relationship with the environment and the sig-
nificance of the choices they make in their lives on both a
local level as well an international level. Topics included
will be the ecosystem, human populations, conservation,
biodiversity, pollution management, and global warming.
The course encourages students to use a holistic perspec-
tive in studying environmental science that includes sci-
entific, ethical, and socio-political aspects. Students will
complete a scientific investigation project involving data
collection and evaluation. Students will be prepared to
take the IB SL Environmental Systems & Societies exam.
UC/CSU (d)
Additional science electives are listed on
page 73.
IB Computer Science SL/HL
(H)(P)(CTE) Year
· 10 Credits
This course is normally taken over two years (unless
otherwise approved by the teacher). Basic topics include
system fundamentals, planning, computer organization,
hardware, networks, computational thinking, problem-
solving and programming. Advanced topics include
abstract data structures, resource management, and
control systems. Students learn about object-oriented
programming using the Java programming language.
Students complete a programming project and a case
study. This course may be taken in preparation for the
International Baccalaureate Computer Science exami-
nation. Students will have the option to take the IB SL
Computer Science test after one year or the IB HL Com-
puter Science test in their senior year if they choose to
take two years of the class. UC/CSU (g)
Junior and Senior Electives
IB-SL Economics (SL)(H)(P) Year
·
10 Credits
IB Economics SL aims to promote awareness of how
the impact of economics shapes global cooperation and
decision-making by states as well as individuals. To
achieve this understanding, students are taught eco-
nomic theories, ideas, and happenings from the points
of view of different individuals, nations, and cultures
in the world economy. The class focuses on how indi-
viduals and governments make decisions using various
fiscal and monetary policies to stabilize and promote
economic growth. There is weight given to international
and development economics as application of economic
theory. Students can take the IB SL Economics exam or
the AP Macroeconomics test if they choose. UC/CSU (g)
IB Music (SL)(HL)(H)(P) Year
·
10 Credits
IB Music seeks to personalize unique approaches to
musical forms, genres, and pieces in order to create life-
long connections between music, music-making, and
passions of students. Students will explore a variety of
musical backgrounds, personal and cultural, as they
embody three roles: the researcher, the creator, and the
performer. Students develop a portfolio with a range of
musical material to expand their own music-making.
The study of music will also include the application of
theory to practical work as students experiment with
music in different local and global contexts. Finally, stu-
dents will prepare finished pieces for a public audience
to showcase their evolving musical identity and level
of musicianship. HL students will extend their study
and development through the HL-only “contemporary
music maker” assessment, a project that entails taking
on all of the musical roles of the IB Music course. This
course is designed to prepare high school musicians for
the IB Diploma in Music. Students will be prepared to
take the IB SL Music exam after one year and the IB HL
Music exam after two years. Prerequisites: Consent of
teacher, ability to play at least one instrument (or sing)
and ability to read music, working knowledge of major
and minor scales and circle of fifths. UC/CSU (f)
IB-SL Social and Cultural Year
·
10 Credits
Anthropology (SL)(H)(P)
Social and cultural anthropology is the comparative
study of culture and human societies. It explores the
general principles of social and cultural life, and the
characteristics of specific societies and cultures. This
class will incorporate both local and global perspectives,
and focus on urban and rural cultures, regional inequal-
ities, and all aspects of today’s world. This course will
focus on issues of race, gender, class, power, inequality,
and indigenous rights. A distinctive feature of this cul-
tural anthropology course is ethnography, a scientific
description of the customs of peoples and cultures.
Students can elect to take the IB SL Social & Cultural
Anthropology exam if they choose. UC/CSU (g)
IB Visual Arts (SL)(HL)(H)(P) Year
·
10 Credits
IB Visual Arts can be taken for one or two years, and is
open to all juniors and seniors from any learning com-
munity at Berkeley High. In this fast-paced, interdis-
ciplinary art course, students are taught to think like
a contemporary artist; using art-making as a way to
research science, history, religion, psychology, and other
subjects. Students will develop an investigation ques-
tions or theme driven by their own interests. They will
explore this questions through research, writing, discus-
sion, performance art, drawing, painting, and sculpture.
Students will create a research workbook, document-
ing their thinking in the form of writing, sketches, and
images. Each student will also make between 10–20
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
bihs
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
44
bihs
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
45
artworks in any media they choose and will participate
in the Spring Exhibition. Although students need a high
degree of self-motivation to succeed in this course, you
do not have to have highly advanced art skills to excel.
Students will be prepared to take the IB SL Visual Arts
exam after one year and the IB HL Visual Arts exam
after two years. Prerequisite: One year of art or per-
mission of the instructor. UC/CSU (f)
IB Art History (SL)(P)(H) Year
·
10 Credits
IB Art History is an introduction to the history of art
produced by human societies. This production, ranging
from painting, sculpture, architecture, design, photog-
raphy and applied arts, to installations, conceptual and
body art, has found expression in human cultures from
the earliest times, and has fulfilled a range of functions.
In this class we will focus on the methods of visual and
contextual analysis, trying to understand how art his-
torians attempt to know what an artwork meant to the
people who made it, meant to people who saw it, and
continues to mean to us in the present. No previous
experience in a studio art class is required, although
students will need a high degree of commitment to
academic work. Open to all sophomores, juniors, and
seniors. Students will be prepared to take the IB SL Art
History exam. All students can take the AP exam if they
choose to. UC/CSU (f)
IB Film (SL)(HL)(H)(P) Year
·
10 Credits
This course is a two year film studies and video produc-
tion course that may be taken for one year at SL Level or
for two years at either SL or HL level.
Year One students learn the basics of academic film
study through formalist film theory and analysis while
looking at short film from around the world. They then
explore genre studies, critical theory as applied to film
and film movements and comparative film studies. Stu-
dents complete the academic requirements for the IB
Film Assessment. In addition to the academic study of
film, Year one students spend the year exploring film
production and production roles through experiemen-
tation, skills work, and video production in the roles
of cinematographer, editor, director, writer, and sound
designer. Students explore working with a range of entry
level industry equipment including DSLR and Mirror-
less Cameras, gimbals, rigs, sound recording equipment,
and the Adobe Creative Suite with a focus on Premiere
Pro. Student make several films throughout the year as
they hone skills in each area eventually selecting 3 roles
to focus on for their portfolio. Additionally, students
learn to give and receive effective critique in a support-
ive community minded environment.
Year Two students focus primarily on advanced produc-
tion skills and collaboration as they work to build out
their portfolios and build skills as collaborators in pro-
duction. Having selected production roles for their port-
folio, students complete a number of short films focusing
on improving their skills in those roles. Students also
work on advanced camera work with Black Magic Cam-
eras, editing skills including color grading (primary and
secondary), masking and compositing, advanced sound
design and foley and post production sound, character
development for screenwriting, and honing their skills as
directors. A large focus of the second semester is a longer
collaborative film that students work in teams to produce,
developing their skills as effective collaborators. Students
continue to grow their skills in critique by taking the
lead in critique sessions for both the Year 1 and Year 2
students. Additionally, when sections are combined Year
2 students support the learning of Year 1 through skill
shares and assisting teaching.
This course may be taken in preparation for the Inter-
national Baccalaureate Film examination. Students will
have the option to take the IB SL Film examination in
one year or two years or the IB HL Film examination in
year two. UC/CSU (f)
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
COMMUNICATION ARTS & SCIENCES
cas
CAS Required Course Progressions
10th 11th 12th
A World History and Cultures AP United States History American Government
B World Literature AP Language & Composition (H)(P) AP Literature & Composition (H)(P)
C Math Progression - See page 64
D CAS-Anatomy & Physiology Chemistry See Science options starting
on pg. 73
E World Language Progressions - See page 86
F Intro to Computer Arts Art of Video Production (CTE)
(see note on pg. 81)
CAS-Advanced Studio Edit (CTE)
CAS-Digital Photo (CTE)
G Economics
Social Justice Seminar: History
See elective options starting on pg. 56 See elective options starting on pg. 56
** For placement policies for honors and advanced classes, see pages 6.
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
46
cas
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
47
CAS’s mission is to graduate academically confident and self-reflective young adults who are
committed to their own well-being and that of their communities. CAS students will leave
the program with a sense of their role in the fight for social justice, a vision of themselves as
lifelong learners, and the skills to critically consume and produce digital media as a tool for
creating a more just world.
To that end, we strive to support our students holistically and provide them with challeng-
ing, relevant curricula. We are committed to continually examining our practice and solic-
iting feedback to ensure that we are trauma-responsive, healing-centered, anti-racist, and
meeting the needs of our students and families. Through our media production career path-
way and our opportunities for collaborative and experiential learning, we aim to develop
students’ academic strengths, technical media skills, empathy, resilience, and agency.
In addition to our academic program, we are proud of
the heterogeneous community of learners that CAS
represents. Every year, we augment students’ experience in
their classes with a variety of extracurricular experiences
designed to promote self-awareness, a sense of community,
and mental and emotional well-being.
These include:
1. Overnight retreats for each grade level at the Camp
Jones Gulch YMCA.
2. Talent Shows and mixers to foster inter-grade
connection.
3. The option to participate in identity-based affinity
groups.
4. Field trips to plays, museums, movies, and other
experiential education opportunities.
5. Senior Experiential Learning Trip
Several key experiences form the backbone of our
academic and career pathway:
▸ The two required media courses: Introduction to
Computer Arts and Art of Video Production
▸ A yearlong internship/service project completed
during Senior year
▸ The Senior Thesis, a college-level research project
on a complex social issue
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
Sophomore Year Courses
Essential Question
▸
10th grade: What is the nature of a just society?
World Literature (P) Year
·
10 Credits
In this course students examine literature from around
the world and write in a variety of genres to analyze the
essential questions. Students are part of a learning com-
munity in which peers work together to make meaning,
provide useful feedback, and push and support each
other to reach their potential. They improve critical
reading and writing skills by using the writing process
to deepen understanding of texts and experiences. In
the culminating project, students develop and produce
a reflective portfolio that illustrates their awareness of
their growth, strengths and weaknesses as a thinker,
reader, writer, and communicator. UC/CSU (b)
World History and Cultures (P) Year
·
10 Credits
In this course we study some of the major political, eco-
nomic and social developments in the world. We begin
with a consideration of the state of the world today and
some key global issues, then explore major events and
ideas that have shaped the modern world. These include:
the rise of nationalism and democracy; industrialization
and the development of a global, capitalist economy; col-
onization and resistance; the world wars and genocide
in the 20th century; and Third World revolutions and
movements for self determination and justice.
With the use of broad, open-ended and often provocative
central questions to tie together the many diverse activities
of each unit, students will see how knowledge builds and
grows towards tentative conclusions. They will consider
multiple perspectives on events and issues as they develop
skills of historical research and interpretation. They should
be able to identify with the experiences of people from dif-
ferent backgrounds and time periods. UC/CSU (a)
Math
See math course descriptions on page 64.
CAS Anatomy and Physiology
(H) (P) Year
·
10 Credits
10th grade students fulfill their Biology Lab Science
requirement with Honors Human Anatomy and Physi-
ology. This course focuses on the different systems of
the body including the cardiovascular, immune, skeletal
and muscular systems and how they have evolved and
function together. It includes multiple dissections, labs,
and activities, while keeping the challenging and rigor-
ous curriculum accessible to 10th grade students. The
human body is of high interest to students and is very
relevant to their lives—additionally, this class strength-
ens their foundation for Chemistry in their 11th grade
year. UC/CSU (d)
CAS - Computer Art (P) Year
·
10 Credits
This course is designed to introduce students to the graphic
capabilities of the computer as a tool for artistic expression.
Students will learn how to use graphics software to manip-
ulate images from digital cameras, scanners and the Inter-
net. There will be a focus on learning art fundamentals and
composition as they apply to visual design. Students will
explore how technology can be used as a tool for commu-
nication and expression. Students will be expected to create
a digital portfolio, participate in critiques and exhibit their
work. UC/CSU (f)
Junior Year Courses
Essential Question
▸
11th grade: What does it mean to be an American?
What principles, hopes and ideals are embodied in “the
American dream”? What does this dream promise, and to
what extent have these promises been fulfilled?
AP Language & Composition
(H)(P) Year · 10 Credits
This course focuses on rhetoric, argument, and syn-
thesizing research. AP Lang centers on the analysis of
nonfiction texts. By the end of the year, CAS juniors will
understand how to close-read, annotate, and rhetori-
cally analyze texts (both written and visual); craft an
argument; deliver a formal speech; and hone their public
speaking and presentation skills. UC/CSU (b)
AP Language Augmentation Year · 10 Credits
This college-level writing course, offered during 7th
period, is designed to augment and integrate with AP
Language & Composition. Juniors who wish to take the
AP Language & Composition test in May and/or fur-
ther their writing and analytical skills may enroll in this
companion course. UC/CSU (b)
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
cas
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
48
cas
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
49
AP U.S. History (P) Year
·
10 Credits
What does it mean to be an American? What principles,
hopes and ideals are included in “the American dream?”
What does this dream promise, and to what extent have
these promises been fulfilled? Has American history been
a history of progress? How successful have marginalized
groups been in their struggles to gain full membership
in our society? In this course, students explore these and
other essential questions in a study of the major turning
points in 20th century American history, with an empha-
sis on the social, cultural, political and economic develop-
ments that have challenged America to broaden its found-
ing definitions of freedom and equality.
Students will develop a complex understanding of the
major ideas and events that have shaped the United States
in the last one hundred years and will learn how knowl-
edge of the past can illuminate possible answers to the
issues and problems which confront our country today.
With the use of broad, open-ended and often provocative
central questions to tie together the many diverse activities
of each unit, students will see how knowledge builds and
grows towards tentative conclusions. They will consider
multiple perspectives on events and issues as they develop
skills of historical research and interpretation; they should
also be able to identify with the experiences of people from
different backgrounds and time periods. UC/CSU (a)
Math
See math course descriptions on page 64.
CAS Chemistry (P) Year
·
10 Credits
What is “stuff” made of? Why are some chemicals dan-
gerous, and others essential for life? How do you know
whether a household product or piece of technology is
safe? How can we generate clean, renewable energy? The
answer to these and many more questions lies in chem-
istry, the study of matter. Since much of what we will
study cannot be seen with the naked eye, we will spend a
great deal of time gathering evidence and data through
experimentation and then creating models to understand
our results. The field of chemistry is the product of gen-
erations of intensely creative thought and experimenta-
tion, and it contains the seeds of the continuing efforts
of humankind to understand, predict, and appreciate the
universe in which we live. UC/CSU (d)
Art of Video Production
(P)(CTE) Year
·
10 Credits
In this class, students become media literate by producing
five-to-six video projects over the course of the year. Each
project builds upon the previous ones in terms of skills
and storytelling techniques. Camera operation, shot com-
position, audio recording and computer-based editing are
emphasized. All completed projects are screened for—and
critiqued by—the class and students are required to submit
their finished pieces to Berkeley High’s film festival and to
external festivals. Note: Students who successfully complete
Art of Video Production in 9th grade can either retake the
course and receive credit for Advanced Studio Editing on
their transcript OR take any other class at BHS that fits with
their schedule.
As part of Berkeley High’s school-wide focus on literacy,
students complete regular writing assignments like project
proposals, producers statements and movie reviews. In
addition to the video projects, students begin developing the
skills needed for careers in video; each semester, they com-
plete two Community Service Projects (CSP’s) in which they
provide video recording services for Berkeley High and the
community. Close study of feature and documentary films
contribute to students’ media literacy and inspire their work
as producers. Prerequisites: None. UC/CSU (f)
Senior Year Courses
CAS Senior Year
Essential Question
•
12th grade: How is social change accomplished and
what can I do to bring about social change for a more just
society?
Students participate in a year-long core English/History/
Media class that includes independent reading and writing
and small discussion groups. Their semester-long commu-
nity service internship provides valuable experience in the
larger world. Students prepare a Senior Thesis that includes
a research paper, an internship evaluation, and a teach-in
before peers and community experts.
CAS BEST History (P) Year
·
10 Credits
BEST stands for Berkeley Experiential Senior Transition
and its goal is to get students out into the world. CAS BEST
History combines experiential learning with a rigorous
history curriculum, weaving in critical aspects of the col-
lege application process. Subtitled “Social Justice, Social
Responsibility and Social Change,” the course examines
the meaning of these terms and students determine each
of our roles in bringing them to bear. Essential Questions:
What are the characteristics of a just society? What are the
major problems we confront today, locally and globally?
What is my responsibility to our local community, to the
larger society, to the world? We examine these questions
from a historical, political, economic and sociological lens.
The Service Learning Project, Senior Thesis and Senior
Exhibition are the culminating assignments of the Senior
Seminar. Each student begins a service placement in
October that continues through May. The Senior Thesis is
based on a topic related to the service project. In May and
June students create and present a Senior Exhibition which
includes oral and media components and details their
learning through their Service Learning Project and their
Senior Thesis. UC/CSU (a)
AP Literature & Composition
(H)(P) Year
·
10 Credits
This class forms part of the CAS Senior Seminar, providing
support for each student as they complete college applica-
tions, the service learning project, and the Senior Thesis.
It also follows the College Board’s vision of the course as
a whole: AP Literature and Composition is an introduc-
tory college-level course that engages students in the care-
ful reading and critical analysis of imaginative literature.
Through their close reading of selected texts, students
deepen their understanding of the ways writers use lan-
guage to provide both meaning and pleasure for their read-
ers. As they read, students consider a work’s structure, style,
and themes, as well as smaller-scale elements such as the use
of figurative language, imagery, symbolism, and tone.” UC/
CSU (b)
In their senior year, CAS students will have the option to
take either:
Advanced Studio/Editing (P) Year
·
10 Credits
In this class, students build upon the video production
skills they acquired in Art of Video Production, sharpen
their media literacy and refine their storytelling skills. In
addition, they will learn the art and craft of production
design from pre-production through post-production
and they will receive practical, technical, and aesthetic
guidance. Using professional-grade equipment, students
complete several exercises and at least two projects over
the course of the year in a variety of genres. In addition,
students provide video services to the school and the com-
munity through three Community Service Projects (CSP).
As part of Berkeley High’s school-wide focus on literacy,
students complete regular writing assignments like project
proposals, treatments, Beat Sheets, and scripts, Produc-
ers Statements, process logs and reflections, and movie
critiques. Guest speakers and field trips facilitate students’
career exploration, as do projects proposed to the class by
community members. Close study of shorts and feature
length films contribute to students’ media literacy and
inspire their work as filmmakers. Prerequisites: Success-
ful completion of Art of Video Production or an equivalent
course or by permission of the teacher. This course is open
to students from all learning communities. UC/CSU (f)
Advanced Digital Photography
See course description on page 81.
Government/Economics (P) Year
·
10 Credits
Government and Economics provides the foundations for
“civic literacy” as described by the California State History-
Social Studies Content Standards. The topics covered in
American Government and Economics are introductory in
nature, but provide the foundations for students to under-
stand the workings of our political and economic systems
and therefore to see the possibilities for points of entry for
themselves and others. The idea is to give the students the
tools for critical decision-making about and participa-
tion in American society. As always in CAS, the themes of
social justice and social change are central to everything we
study. In order to change the system, we must understand
how it works, that is the goal of this course. UC/CSU (g)
Math
See course descriptions on page 64.
Senior Science Options
See course descriptions on page 73.
Electives
See Elective offerings starting on page 56.
cas
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
50
BERKELEY INDEPENDENT STUDY
independent study
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
The Berkeley Independent Study (BIS) Program for 9th-12th graders is a program of Berkeley
High School (BHS) that offers an academically rigorous alternative to the typical classroom envi-
ronment. Many different kinds of students choose BIS: students who excel academically, who take
Berkeley City College courses concurrently, who seek the flexibility of scheduling available at BIS
because they have daytime jobs, must care for children, or have to schedule around major athletic
or artistic pursuits. Some students have emotional or health-related issues and need extra support.
Some simply prefer an alternative educational environment. In any case, BIS students must be self-
motivated and organized to succeed.
Students graduate with a BHS diploma. BIS fulfills the
basic requirements for students applying to all major uni-
versities and offers all A-G classes required by UC/CSU.
We offer honors and AP classes in most subjects. Gradu-
ates have attended a wide range of universities including
state, private and Ivy League schools. Students fulfill
the same graduation requirements as at Berkeley High
School. Courses not offered on the Berkeley Independent
Study campus may be taken concurrently at BHS. Stu-
dents may enroll in a maximum of 2 courses at BHS, pro-
vided space is available. Students register for BHS courses
after registration is complete for BHS students. Students
have access to all Berkeley High sports, clubs, the College
and Career Center, and the BHS Library. BIS students
waiting for a class at BHS to start are expected to be off
campus or the CCC or library.
BIS uses a quarter system. Students may take a maxi-
mum of three classes per quarter so that they have ample
time to complete their work. Students are expected to put
in an average of 10 hours of work per class each week.
Attending all class appointments on time is essential due
to the accelerated pace of the quarter system. All classes
are conducted one-on-one, or via small seminars. Stu-
dents must attend weekly classes with each of their teach-
ers. Students must submit completed weekly assignments
to their teachers. There is a strict Academic Probation
policy. Students who do not meet Independent Study
expectations will be exited back to Berkeley High School
or Berkeley Technology Academy. Tutoring is available
for students who need additional support. BIS is not
designed to let students accelerate and graduate early.
BIS Gardening Program
Our innovative garden based nutrition program allows
students and their families to learn about and experience
soil conservation, principles of food scrap composting,
or vermiculture (raising and producing earthworms for
worm castings) and no till planting. We explore and prac-
tice quiet meditation and the importance of connecting
with and caring for the land. We learn principles of land
stewardship and how to share the earth’s bounty with
each other. Growing and eating healthy food is the best
insurance for healthy living. Our garden and cooking
Instructor emphasizes nutrition and the science of grow-
ing, cooking and eating healthy nutrition-rich foods. We
provide classes specifically for high school students as
well as a curriculum for K-8. We focus on five basic prin-
ciples in our garden:
•
All life is valuable and nothing is considered a weed
•
Efficient conservative water use is key to sustainable
growing
•
Composting and building soil is fundamental to suc-
cessful growing
•
Positivity and respect in and for the garden insures a
healthy, happy gardening experience
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
51
•
Compassionate team work and loving respect for all
living things bears the fruits, vegetables and grains we
need to live long, healthy productive lives!
Please visit the Berkeley Independent Study to learn
about the BIS program and all of the steps to enroll.
(BIS) website:
https://berkeleyindependentstudy.wordpress.com
Questions: email bis@berkeley.net or call (510) 644-6159
The Application Process:
1. All families must attend an orientation as a first step to
enrolling at Berkeley Independent Study. Sign up at the
BIS website for an orientation.
2. After attending an orientation please fill out the BIS
Application found as a Google form at the BIS website.
3. Email bis@berkeley.net to let BIS know that you want
to move on with the enrollment process. In the email
please request a meeting with the academic counselor
to sign a contract and do a schedule.
Note: If a student has an IEP, the IEP team at the student’s
current school must convene to determine if Independent
Study is an appropriate placement. See steps below. If a
student is an English Learner, then the BHS Multilingual
Program would be consulted about placement. Only the
SARB team can recommend that a truant student come to
ISP. If coming from out of district, you must start the pro-
cess at BUSD Admissions Office at 2020 Bonar Street or at
admissions@berkeley.net. Students enrolled in ISP may be
eligible to enroll in up to 2 classes at BHS, provided there is
space in the class.
BUSD Home & Hospital Instruction
(HHI)
Availability of Individualized Instruction for a pupil
with temporary disability in the hospital or at home (EC
§§48206.3, 48207-48208):
Home & Hospital Instruction (HHI) is available to
all Berkeley Unified students who are unable to attend
school for extended periods of time due to physical or
mental incapacity. Students must have authorization
from a medical doctor and the school district to enroll.
The student that is approved must have a need to be
out of the school on record for 30 days or more. HHI is
individualized instruction that is available to students
with temporary disabilities whose disability makes
attendance in the regular day classes or alternative edu-
cation program in which the student is enrolled impos-
sible or inadvisable.
HHI students are entitled to five hours of instruction
per week. Assigned teachers usually meet the students at
their homes or in the hospital. By keeping in touch with
primary teachers, HHI teachers help students keep up
with their regular course load. If a student is with the
HHI teacher for a quarter or more, then the HHI teacher
will give a student grades for their classes. This program
helps ensure that students, regardless of circumstance,
can keep up with their education. The HHI program is
administered on the Independent Studies campus.
HHI Application Process:
1. The family picks up an HHI application from BIS
Office or the BIS website.
2. 3. 4. A doctor must sign the application, give a medical rea-
son, and add a return date.
The Principal/VP would have to approve and sign the
HHI application as well as a counselor.
• If the student has an IEP, then an IEP meeting
must be held and the IEP team must agree to a
change of placement.
The family turns in the completed application to the
BIS Office.
5. The HHI Lead Teacher meets with the family and
they sign a master agreement contract with a student’s
schedule.
6. Then BIS notifies the current school that the student
has started HHI and dis-enrolls the student from their
classes at his current school .
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
independent study
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
52
independent study
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
53
BIS Course Offerings
Quarter 1/3 Quarter 2/4
English (5 credits) English (5 credits)
Required Grade
9 English 1 A (P) English 1 B (P)
10 World Literature A (P) World Literature B (P)
11 American Lit A (P) American Lit B (P)
12 African American Literature A (P) African American Literature B (P)
12 Reading/Writing the Short Story A (P) 12 Composition (P) Composition (P)
12 Genre in Literature (P) Genre in Literature (P)
Reading/Writing the Short Story B (P)
12 World of Media (P) Genre in Literature (Film)
12 Bible as Literature (P) Comparative Religion (P) History
AP Literature and Comp A (AP) AP Literature and Comp B (AP)
AP Language and Comp A (AP) AP Language and Comp B (AP)
11-12 11-12 History/Social Science (5 credits) History/Social Science (5 credits)
independent study
9 Ethnic Studies Social Living
10 World History and Cultures 1 (P) 11 US History 1 (P) US History 2 (P)
AP US History (P) 12 American Government (P) Economics (P)
AP American Government (P)
World History and Cultures 2 (P)
AP US History (P)
12 Theoretical Psychology (P) Sociology (P)/ Anthropology (P)
Math (5 credits) - 4 Quarters Math (5 credits) - 4 Quarters
Math 1 A Qtr or Math 1 B Qtr Math 1 A (P) or Math 1 B (P)
Math 2 A Qtr or Math 2 B Qtr Math 2 A (P) or Math 2 B (P)
Math 3 A Qtr or Math 3 B Qtr Adv Math 1 A Qtr or Adv Math 1 B Qtr Math 3 A (P) or Math 3 B (P)
Adv Math 1 A (P) or Adv Math 1 B (P)
Adv Math 2 A Qtr or Adv Math 2 B Qtr Adv Math 2 B (P) or Adv Math 2 B (P)
Adv Math 3 A Qtr or Adv Math 3 B Qtr AP Calculus AB Qtr Adv Math 3 A (P) or Adv Math 3 B (P)
AP Calculus AB (AP)
AP Calculus BC Qtr AP Calculus BC (AP)
AP Statistics AP Statistics
Science (5 credits) Science (5 credits)
9-10 Integrated Science (P)(Spring Only) Integrated Science (P)(Spring Only)
9-12 Biology 1 D (P) Biology 2 D (P)
10-12 Chemistry (P) Chemistry (P)
AP Environmental Science 1 (P)(Fall Only) 11-12 AP Environmental Science 2 (P)(Fall Only)
World Language (5 credits) World Language (5 credits)
9-12 French 1 (P) French 1B (P)
9-12 French 3 (P) French 2B (P)
9-12 Spanish 1 (P) Spanish 1A (P)
9-12 Spanish 2 (P) Spanish 2B (P)
9-12 Spanish 3 (P) Spanish 3B (P)
9-12 Spanish 4 (P) Spanish 4B (P)
9-12 AP Spanish Seminar (P) AP Spanish Seminar (P)
9-12 AP Spanish Literature (P) AP Spanish Literature (P)
Spanish for Native Speakers 1 (P) Spanish for Native Speakers 3 (P) 9-12 9-12 Spanish for Native Speakers 2 (P)
Spanish for Native Speakers 4 (P)
Visual Arts (5 credits) Visual Arts (5 credits)
9-12 Drawing (P) Drawing (P)
9-12 Advanced Drawing and Painting (P) Advanced Drawing and Painting (P)
9-12 Creative Arts (P) Creative Arts (P)
9-12 Digital Photography (P) Digital Photography (P)
Physical Education (5 credits) Physical Education (5 credits)
9-12 PE/Conditioning PE/Conditioning
9-12 Heart Fitness and Nutrition Heart Fitness and Nutrition
General Electives (5 credits) General Electives (5 credits)
11-12 Field Studies Field Studies
11-12 Work Experience Work Experience
9-12 Proctor Proctor
12 BEST English (P) BEST History (P)
11-12 Journalism Journalism
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
BTA
Berkeley Technology
Academy
2701 Martin Luther King Jr. Way, Berkeley, CA 94703 | Office (510) 644-6159 | Fax (510) 644-4597
BTA is one of Berkeley’s alternative schools. In 2006 the BUSD School Board approved
A-G courses at BTA, allowing qualified students to enroll directly in a four-year university.
In spring 2018 the BUSD school board added a 130 credits high school diploma as an
option at BTA, in addition to the original 220 credit diploma. Both diploma options meet
the requirements for the state of California for standard diplomas. BTA has two new
Career Tech Education (CTE) pathways in Public Health and Computer Science to support
students with Career and College Readiness, and post secondary plans. Class size is no
more than 18:1, and the enrollment maximum is currently 90 students.
BTA Only Continuation Diploma
(130 Credits)
▸
Requirements:
30 credits of Social Studies (World History, US History,
Government/Economics)
▸
▸
30 credits of English
20 credits of Mathematics
▸
20 credits of Science (Physical Science and Life Science)
▸
▸
10 credits of World Language, Visual and Performing
Arts, and or CTE
20 credits of PE
▸
▸
▸
Post Secondary Options:
2 year college (Associate’s degree or transfer program
into a 4 year college)
Vocational/certification program
Entrance into the work field
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
BTA
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
54
BTA
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
55
All students and families choose BTA voluntarily. The
school enrolls students who are at least 16 years old or
who are turning 16 during the semester in which they
enroll. Credit-deficient students are referred to BTA
by Berkeley High School (BHS) counselors and special
education case managers. The student, family and BTA
principal hold a transition meeting for placement at
BTA. If a student has an IEP, an IEP placement meeting
is held, and the IEP team recommends the placement.
The BTA education specialist and BTA principal are
included on the IEP team.
The BTA vision is to empower its students to make
quality decisions that serve them in achieving their aca-
demic, post-secondary, and life goals. The BTA mission
is to contest traditional notions of a high school gradu-
ate by providing an uncompromising, rigorous and rel-
evant education for all students and to build on the prin-
ciple that strong, respectful, and caring relationships are
vital to student success.
Internships with Growing Leaders
Program at BTA
The Growing Leaders program is excited to provide paid
internships for students enrolled in the CTE-Public
Health pathway at BTA. The internships are focused
in two areas. Students run the biweekly food pantry at
BTA. They use the gardens at BTA and Willard Middle
school to grow produce for the food pantry. The food
pantry currently serves 150 families a month totalling
around 500 people. We believe based on the need in our
South Berkeley community we can increase this number
significantly. BTA students have college student men-
tors who do similar work at the Basic Needs Center at
UC Berkeley. Student interns also create their own food
business. They will market and sell the products through
the online platform: http://www.growingleadersbayarea.
com/high-school-internship.html All work is conducted
outside in the Willard and BTA gardens.
Growing Leaders has been running a summer employ-
ment program for BTA students since 2008. During the
academic year students will be working with the Grow-
ing Leaders director, and Program Manager and the
new Public Health teacher for BTA.
BTA
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
Departments
African American Studies
CTE Technology: Robotics, Engineering & Computer Science
Inclusive Education
Mathematics
Multilingual Program
Physical Education
Science
Visual and Performing Arts
World Language
Other Electives
electives/departments
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
56
african american studies
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
57
African American Studies
African American Studies Courses
9th 10th 11th 12th
A African American History 1/2*
B African American Literature* African American Literature
AP Literature & Composition:
Patterns in Black Literature
C African Diaspora Beginning/intermediate Dance** African Diaspora Advanced Dance
D African American Economics *
Black Psychology
Sociology & Anthropology
Pop Culture: Inventing Hip Hop
Black Gold, Black Soul: Oral
Expressions in African
American Culture
Black Psychology
Sociology & Anthropology
Pop Culture: Inventing Hip Hop
Black Gold, Black Soul: Oral
Expressions in African
American Culture
* Courses with asterisks meets additional BHS graduation requirements (see course descriptions).
** Once a student completes African Diaspora Beginning & Intermediate Dance with a “C” or better, they can move into the Advanced class in any year.
The African American Studies Depart-
ment, the only one of its kind in the United
States, is a unique learning environment
within Berkeley High School. It focuses on
the African American experience relative
to the national and global perspective. The
humanities based courses take students on
a journey through Africa’s glorious past, the
Trans-Atlantic slave trade, and the African
American dynamics as an integral part of
the development of our nation through his-
tory, literature, language, dance, drama, and
spoken word.
The mission of the African-American Studies
Department is:
▸ To empower students with a positive sense of identity,
purpose, and direction.
▸ To educate students and the greater community with
an awareness and appreciation for the accomplishments,
contributions, history, and culture of people of African
descent.
▸ To encourage students to strive for excellence and
embrace the attributes of the African-American SPIRIT:
Strength, Perseverance, Imagination, Responsibility,
Integrity, and Talent.
African American Studies courses, offered through the
African American Studies Department, fulfill elective
requirements in the various other BHS departments. For
example, African American Literature fulfills elective
credit for English and African American History 1/2
fulfills the US History requirement. In addition, all Afri-
can American Studies courses fulfill the ethnic studies
requirement.
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
History
African American History 1/2 (P) Year · 10 Credits
This course is designed to study the influence of African
upon America and the world. The saga of African Ameri-
cans is traced from their African origins in Ethiopia and
Egypt through slavery in America to the Civil War, and
up to the “Harlem Renaissance.” The second semester of
this course will examine the accomplishments of African
Americans from the end of the “Harlem Renaissance”
period through the tumultuous Civil Rights era, and the
Black consciousness movement to the present. This course
may be taken by students in grades 11 and 12 and meets
the UC/CSU US History requirement. UC/CSU (a)
English
African American Literature (P) Year · 10 Credits
This college preparatory course offers students an
immersive journey into the rich and vibrant world of
Black Literature. Students will engage with various nar-
ratives, including novels, short stories, speeches, essays,
films, and poetry, crafted by authors and artists from the
African Diaspora and the Afro-Latino world. Through
these works, students will develop a deeper under-
standing of self-identity, cultural perspectives, and the
interconnectedness of global experiences. Class discus-
sions and collaborative work will form the foundation
of our learning environment, encouraging students to
exchange ideas, challenge perspectives, and grow as crit-
ical thinkers. Students in 11th and 12th grade may take
this course for English credit. UC/CSU (b)
AP Literature & Composition: Patterns in
Black Literature (P) (H) Year - 10 credits
This year-long college preparatory course explores the
rich world of Black literature, delving into narratives
that shape individual and collective identities through
themes of post-colonial slavery, racism, and social equal-
ity. Students will develop critical thinking, writing, and
analytical skills while engaging with diverse works by
African Diaspora and Afro-Latino authors. The course
emphasizes collaborative group work, student-led dis-
cussions, and interactive Socratic seminars to encourage
deep exploration of complex themes. Through novels,
short stories, essays, poetry, films, and music, students
will analyze the multifaceted experiences of Black com-
munities and craft their narratives. Prerequisite:
Grade 12 Students must have taken at least one class in
the African American Studies Department either previ-
ously or concurrently to take this course. UC/CSU (b)
Electives
African American Economics (P) Semester
·
5 Credits
This dynamic course is designed, first of all, to familiar-
ize students with the concepts and terminology of basic
economics that they may encounter in life or on any
objective test. Secondly, the course acquaints students
with the relation of the African American community to
the American economy as a whole. Finally, the instruc-
tor examines the role that African Americans have
played in the establishment of the American economy.
Assignments are geared toward providing students with
hands-on experiences of basic economic survival in the
cities of modern America. Assignments focus upon basic
financial planning, credit trap avoidance, real estate and
car purchases, entrepreneurship and meeting the needs
of providing food, shelter and clothing for one’s fam-
ily in the 21st century. This course satisfies economics
requirement for graduation. UC/CSU (g)
Black Psychology and Year · 10 Credits
Sociology & Anthropology (P)
This two part elective course will examine current
research on the diverse experiences, behavior, and iden-
tities of African Americans. The course will be taught
in a seminar format and students will be engaged in the
discussions and analysis of various topics, including
those from theoretical African American Literature.
This course helps students to consider the social con-
struction of ethnicity and race, as well as the values,
assumptions, and biases we hold regarding race, ethnic-
ity, and related issues. Students will also be exposed to
the social inequities related to race and ethnicity and the
interaction of such inequities with other reference group
identities such as SES, gender, religion and spirituality,
sexuality, and age. UC/CSU (g)
Pop Culture: Inventing Hip Hop Black Gold, Black Soul: Oral Fall
Spring
· 5 Credits
· 5 Credits
Expressions in African American
Culture (P)
Hip Hop Studies & Black Gold Black Soul (BGBS) are, tra-
ditionally, two separate courses on their own; however, both
semester classes are blended together throughout the year.
In this course, students will connect traditional forms
of African expression with the hip hop culture of today.
Hip hop is African expression in its modern iteration. In
addition to the study of hip hop’s history and culture, we
will also explore and practice its central elements—DJ,
MC, Breakdance, and Graffiti. Furthermore, students
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
african american studies
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
58
african american studies
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
59
will explore social, political and economic issues and
how they connect to themselves and their community.
We will investigate these topics through creative writing,
song production and mixing, raps, poetry, graffiti, and
cyphers. In the end, students will be able to appreciate the
beats, lyrics, and style of hip hop while gaining a deeper
understanding of how hip hop is rooted within a greater
African cultural tradition. UC/CSU (g)
Spanish 1: Spanish in the
African Diaspora (P) Year
·
10 Credits
This course is the equivalent of Spanish I with a focus
on Afro-Latino history and culture. The course covers
the Moorish influences on Spain and the Arabic influ-
ences on the Spanish language, Black and Brown social
movements, and the music, culture, and history of the
Spanish-speaking African diaspora. Emphasis is placed
on listening and speaking skills as well as the initial
development of reading and writing. No prior knowl-
edge necessary.
Performing Arts Elective Courses
t Note: The following courses can earn credit in
either Performing Arts or Physical Education
African Diaspora Beginning
Dance (P) Year · 10 Credits
As one of the courses of the African American Stud-
ies Program, the objective of this course is to pres-
ent means by which one can understand African and
African-derived cultures through direct experience in
the education of music and dance and its relationship to
and influence on contemporary dance. While provid-
ing historical structure, technique, and discipline, stu-
dents are exposed to a wide variety of dance styles and
are provided with an alternative learning atmosphere,
which is beneficial physically, mentally and spiritually.
9th through 12th grade. This course is offered subject to
enrollment. UC/CSU (f) or (PE credit)
African Diaspora Advanced
Dance (P) Year
·
10 Credits
This is the most intense level of African Dance. Students
delve into folklore and mythology as manifested in cer-
emonies and rhythmic movements. The interrelations of
music, dance and dance/drama are explored. Students,
by choreographing a piece to be performed on stage,
are able to make comparative analysis of the varied
dance forms and how one has influenced the other. For
the advanced student, this course provides an oppor-
tunity to accurately depict and perpetuate African and
African-derived folklore and other dance forms in per-
formances on stage; to better acquaint the community
with Africa’s past, present, and future. Prerequisites:
11th and 12th grade students. “C” or better in Begin-
ning/Intermediate African Diaspora Dance, and teacher
approval. UC/CSU (f) or (PE credit)
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
trecs
CTE Technology: Robotics,
Engineering & Computer Science
Information & Communications
Technology
Introduction to Computer Programming
(P)(CTE) Year
· 10 Credits
This course includes an introduction to the Python com-
puter programming language and an introduction to web
programming using HTML, CSS, Javascript, and JQuery.
Students will be able to create sophisticated web sites, gain
experience creating functions, conditionals and loops. They
will learn to use structured data types such as arrays and
strings. Optional topics may include Computer Aided 3D
design, 3D printing, robotics or exploring other program-
ming languages such as Ruby, PHP or Java. UC/CSU (g)
AP Computer Science Principles
(H)(P)(CTE) Year
· 10 Credits
Computing is dramatically changing our world, giving us
new ways to interact with each other and technology itself.
However, using a computer is only a small part of the pic-
ture. The real transformative and empowering experience
comes when one learns to program, to translate ideas to
code. This Advanced Placement course teaches students
how to program using Snap! but it teaches more than
just how to program. This course provides an excellent
opportunity to develop understanding of skills relevant to
a broad range of industries. The focus will be on some of
the “Big Ideas” of computing, such as abstraction, design,
recursion, concurrency, privacy concerns, simulations,
and the limits of computation. In addition the course will
look at some of the beautiful applications of computing
that have changed the world, talk about the history of
computing, and discuss where it will go in the future. Part
of the student’s AP score will come from tasks completely
of the students’ choosing, on topics most interesting to
them. The overarching theme is to expose students to the
beauty and joy of computing. Prerequisites: 10-12 grade
or permission of instructor. UC/CSU (d)
AP Computer Science A (Java)
(H)(P)(CTE) Year
· 10 Credits
This computer programming course introduces students
to core topics in computer science, such as problem solv-
ing strategies; designing programs; storing and organizing
data in a computer; and informal reasoning about how
programs work. The course will introduce students to the
basics of the Java programming language, and how it can
be used to write programs relevant to data analysis, natu-
ral language processing, art, and media (No prior, specific
experience in Java is necessary.) This AP course uses Java
in preparation for the Advanced Placement Computer Sci-
ence A Exam. The course introduces students to computer
science with fundamental topics that include problem solv-
ing, design strategies and methodologies, organization of
data (data structures), approaches to processing data (algo-
rithms), analysis of potential solutions, and touches on the
ethical and social implications of computing. The course
emphasizes object-oriented problem solving and design
using the Java language. These techniques represent proven
approaches for developing solutions that can scale up from
small, simple problems to large, complex problems. Complex
programming assignments give students experience in more
advanced programming methodology. This course may be
taken in preparation for the Advanced Placement Exam in
Computer Science. Prerequisites: previous programming
experience or per- mission of instructor. UC/CSU (c)
IB Computer Science SL/HL
(P)(CTE) Year
· 10 Credits
This course is normally taken over two years (unless other-
wise approved by the teacher). Basic topics include system
fundamentals, planning, computer organization, hardware,
networks, computational thinking, problem-solving and
programming. Advanced topics include abstract data struc-
tures, resource management, and control systems. Students
learn about object-oriented programming using the Java
programming language. Students complete a program-
ming project and a case study. This course may be taken in
preparation for the International Baccalaureate Computer
Science examination. Students will have the option to take
the SL test after one year or the HL test in their senior year
if they choose to take two years of the class. UC/CSU (d)
SOFTWARE ENGINEERING ADVANCED
TOPICS IN COMPUTER SCIENCE
(D)(CTE) Year
· 10 Credits
By recommendation or pre assessment. An advanced
course open to students who have passed the AP CS A
exam or who have equivalent prior experience, this course
provides an introduction to programming techniques and
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
CTE Technology
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
60
CTE Technology
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
61
concepts needed to build large scale software systems. Top-
ics include use of types, APIs, functional and and object
oriented programming styles, and how to structure large
software systems. Students will also learn how to collabo-
rate using modern software toolchains including version
control, editors and IDEs, build systems, and package man-
agers. UC/CSU (d) - computer science
Engineering Design
Robotics Engineering (D)(CTE) Year
· 10 Credits
This introductory class in a hands-on project-based course
designed to develop students’ creativity and technological
savvy through the process of designing building, program-
ming robots and other tools. Through hands-on projects
and collaboration students uncover the magic behind
mechanics, electronics and coding. Explore 3D printing,
CAD design metal manufacturing and learn skills that go
beyond the classroom—like problem-solving, teamwork,
and out-of-the-box thinking. This UC/CSU college prepara-
tory science class equips you with the knowledge and practi-
cal expertise to get started in the world of engineering while
earning valuable credits towards your academic journey.
Prerequisites: None. UC/CSU (d) - engineering science
Advanced Robotics Engineering
(D)(CTE) Year
· 10 Credits
This UC/CSU college preparatory science course follows the
Robotics Engineering course and allows students to further
develop their understanding of the world of robotics and
engineering. They will learn advanced design, program-
ming, and embedded system skills such as advanced data
structures, object oriented programming, PCB design, com-
puter-aided machining, open and closed loop control sys-
tems, and machine learning/AI. Students will also explore
additional advanced hardware and software techniques. The
course work is centered around hands-on, inquiry based,
cumulative projects in the laboratory setting. The projects
focus on the application of physics principles in a variety
of forms including rotational mechanics, electrical engi-
neering, computer science, and optics. Students will work
individually and in teams to build, design, and test complex
robotic systems. At the end of the course, students will com-
plete a capstone project that combines many of these skills,
and will create and maintain a website to document their
project. Honors: a credit is open to 11th and 12th, meets
concurrently but involves additional academic tasks like
written reports, research projects, and more complex chal-
lenges. Prerequisites: Robotics Engineering or Computer
Science. UC/CSU (d) - engineering science
Robot Build (G)(CTE) Year
· 10 Credits
This course is designed to help students acquire the skills
needed to actively participate on the Berkeley High FIRST
Robotics team without prior experience. This is an EXT-
period course. Students work with the instructions/men-
tors and senior members of the team to develop expertise
in areas such as Computer-Aided Design (CAD), use of
machine tools (lathe, mill, saws, CNC equipment, weld-
ing, etc), electronics, and software. The course is very
hands-on; students work in the robotics lab to design and
build prototypes and then the actual competition robot.
Completers of this afterschool class earn UC/CSU college
preparatory elective credit and participate in the BHS
robotics team during the fall and spring seasons. Pre-
requisites: none. UC/CSU (g) - college prep elective
Advanced Robot Build (P)(CTE) Year
· 10 Credits
Students taking this class participate on the BHS Robotics
team and continue to develop skills in one or more areas of
interest from mechanical design/CAD, machining/fabrica-
tion/assembly, electrical systems, programming, and or
business/media. This is an EXT-period course. Although
there will be some academic topics such as mechanics,
electronics and programming, the course is project-based
and will require a significant amount of work outside of the
regular class period. The main focus is to design, manu-
facture, assemble, and program one or more competition
robots each semester. However, students interested in team
management or the business/media strand will focus on
support of the team through personable and logistical plan-
ning, business development (fundraising, sponsorship,
financial management, etc.) and team PR (press releases,
social media, website development, team apparel, etc.).
More information about the FIRST Robotics program can
be found at www.firstinspires.org/frc. Honors: This inte-
grated course is designed to support and facilitate third- and
fourth-year student’s leadership development. Foundational
knowledge from the prior two courses (Robot Build and
Advanced Robot Build) and from prior experience on a
FIRST Robotics team by performing advanced level work
in the areas of engineering, manufacturing, programming,
and team project management. Honors students facilitate
collaborative learning in small teams and develop advanced
personal skill in specialty areas while allowing all students
to be involved with all aspects of competitive team projects.
Students in this course will have the opportunity to lead,
guide, and mentor first- and second-year students on our
FIRST Robotics team while embracing a learning-by-doing
approach. Prerequisites: Robot Build, Robotics Engineer-
ing, Computer Science. UC/CSU (g) - college prep elective.
Makerspace Engineering (formerly
Mechatronics)(D)(CTE) Year
· 10 Credits
Explore the fascinating world of engineering in this EXT-
period course. Designed in collaboration with leading
regional employers (EBMUD, PG&E), students will gain
hands-on experience and delve into how to design and
build the electromechanical systems that shape our daily
lives. Students will earn UC/CSU college preparatory lab
science credit. Design build, wire, and program mecha-
nisms in a project-based learning class. Study electric
circuits, electromagnetism, digital electronics, and learn
to use industry standard electrical lab equipment. Develop
Computer-Aided Design (CAD) skills and learn to build
those parts with 3D printers and laser cutters. Learn to pro-
gram microcontrollers in C and Python. Classes meet in
a purpose-built makerspace at the Berkeley Adult School.
Honors: This credit option is open to 11th and 12th grad-
ers, meets concurrently but involves additional academic
tasks like written reports, research projects, and more com-
plex challenges. Prerequisites: Robotics Engineering or
Computer Science. UC/CSU (d) - physical science
Digital Sound Engineering
(P)(CTE) Year
· 10 Credits
Sound Engineering is an introduction to basic MIDI (Musi-
cal Instrument Digital Interface) concepts and techniques.
Topics include keyboard programming, sound modules,
sequencing, and electronic music production. Students will
gain a foundational understanding of digital and analog
audio systems from an acoustical, electrical, and signal flow
perspective, balancing new state-of-the-art techniques with
an understanding of historical context. Students will learn
basic music theory (rhythm, melody, harmony), how to
identify different musical instruments based on acoustical
properties, and how to transcribe music. They will create
melodic and harmonic loops and record cover songs. Stu-
dents will also learn about the music industry in the U.S.
Course This knowledge will be reinforced with substantial
experiential project time, using professional equipment as
students attain the technical facility necessary for careers
in the digital media realm. There will be an emphasis on
integrated projects with the performing arts and the estab-
lished Digital Video pathways. UC/CSU (f)
Advanced Sound Production (Sound
Engineering 2) (F) (CTE) Year
· 10 Credits
See course description on page 12. UC/CSU (f)
CAD Design Studio (P)(CTE) Year
· 10 Credits
In this course, students will become familiar with all
aspects of the design process from drawing, 3D model-
ing and CAD drafting through advanced manufacturing
techniques such as 3D printing and CNC machining.
Using the Design Thinking process, students will learn to
think like a designer as they develop innovative solutions
to real world problems. This class will encourage the use
of design software to generate ideas and proposals, as well
as fabrication tools to realize those ideas in three dimen-
sions. Students will learn to safely and confidently use
hand and power tools to cut, fasten and assemble different
materials as they make functional objects and structures.
Students will toggle between the architectural scale, the
product design scale and the furniture scale through indi-
vidual and group projects as they build their individual
tool kit and explore their creativity. Priority enrollments
for 11th and 12th grade. No prerequisite. UC/CSU (g)
Building Trades and Construction
Introduction to Carpentry
(P)(CTE) Year
· 10 Credits
The Carpentry Pathway will introduce students to career
opportunities within the sector and provide an overview
of the planning, design, layout, and technical drawing
interpretation for practical use in woodworking, cabinet-
making, and millworking. Students will be introduced to
the different construction processes in the cabinetmaking,
furniture making, and millworking industries. Students
will learn to safely use woodworking tools and machines
to produce a quality furniture project. Students will also be
introduced to carpentry through model design and con-
struction. Safety is stressed throughout the program.
Stagecraft Technical
Theatre 1/2 & 3/4 (P)(CTE) Year
· 10 Credits
The Entertainment Technician course introduces and
develops students in four departments of entertainment
technician expertise; Rigging, Carpentry, Lighting and
Audio-Video. The course concentrates on fundamental and
advanced elements of expertise an entertainment techni-
cian must have to succeed and thrive in the broad industry
of presenting Performing Arts in its many forms. Strong
emphasis is placed on safe working practices for all aspects
of producing entertainment presentations. The course
departments each require a semester of training totaling
2 years, or 4 semesters to complete the full requirement.
Individual departments may be completed for proportional
credit, but only the full course will claim a credential and
career placement advantage. Coursework includes class-
room training on concepts and skills and practical applica-
tion in an entertainment production environment of those
skills to achieve confidence and mastery. UC/CSU (g)
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
CTE Technology
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
62
inclusive education
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26 63
Inclusive Education
Berkeley High School serves approximately 400 students with Individual Educational Plans
(IEPs). Special Education services at the high school meet the diverse requirements of students
with a wide range of learning needs, from mild to severe learning, emotional, and physical
differences. In accordance with the mandate to provide the least restrictive environment for all
students, special education staff members provide students with the most inclusive program
possible. Special education teachers collaborate with and support general education teachers.
All learning communities are able to meet the needs of
all students with IEPs, and educational specialists work
with the staff of each learning community to make the
curriculum accessible. Special educators teach literacy,
math and transition with the goals of increasing student
success in general education and of promoting positive
post-secondary outcomes. Students’ school programs are
designed through the IEP process and may include single
or multiple periods of specialized academic instruction.
The IEP process also focuses on building skills needed for
post secondary transition, sometimes including job place-
ments, individualized programs that enable students to
make up needed credits, and classes explicitly preparing
students for life after high school.
Courses for students with Moderate to
Severe Disabilities (Homebase Program)
INE Community Transition
INE Work Skills
INE Lifeskills Math
INE Lifeskills Social Living
INE Reading
INE Health
Courses for students with Mild/Moderate
Disabilities
INE Pre Algebra
Incorporates basic math skills with practical instruction
in real-life math.
INE Algebra
For students who need reinforcement of Algebraic
principles.
INE Literacy
Emphasis on all aspects of literacy, including decoding,
fluency, and comprehension in reading, as well as scaf-
folded support in writing, academic language develop-
ment, and oral language practice.
INE CLC (Collaborative Learning Center)
The INE CLC (Collaborative Learning Center) class
includes direct whole/small group and individual instruc-
tion in specific academic skills to support access to general
education curriculum; post-secondary and transition skills;
and executive functioning skills, to include organization,
time management, self-advocacy and self-regulation, to
address common learning needs and individual IEP goals.
Counseling Enriched Classroom (CEC)
This structured, self-contained, and goal-oriented pro-
gram combines academic coursework with an intensive
therapeutic component. The CEC includes a counseling-
integrated component within the classroom along with
individual and family therapy outside the classroom.
Students are referred through the IEP process, and can
participate in a flexible schedule that affords them the
opportunity to take courses in the large school program
depending upon individual goals and needs. Within
the CEC, courses include those required for graduation,
such as English, math, history, and science, which will
fulfill requirements for a high school diploma.
Additional Courses
INE Work Experience
Possible for special education internship programs.
INE Community Transition
Focuses on the transition skills necessary to maximize
independent living, including nutrition, healthy life-
styles, social skills and communication, civic participa-
tion, budgeting, technology, and food preparation.
INE Lifeskills
Umbrella course designed to meet the unique academic
and transition needs for students with disabilities,
including access to Cyber High credit recovery and
other coursework as determined by the IEP process.
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
Mathematics
Most students at BHS will take the course progression of Math 1, Math 2, Math 3 for their
9th–11th grade years and then will have a choice of AP Calculus AB, AP Statistics, IB-SL
Math, Math Studies, or Data Science.
Students in all math classes will engage with the Standards for Mathematical Practice (see below)
Standards of Mathematical Practice
1 Make sense of problems and persevere in solving them
2
3
4
Reason abstractly and quantitatively
Construct viable arguments and critique the reasoning of others
Model with mathematics
5
6
7
8
Use appropriate tools strategically
Attend to precision
Look for and make use of structure
Look for and express regularity in repeated
reasoning
MATH 1 MATH 2 MATH 3
There is a process in the spring for current Math 1
students to move to Advanced Math 2 in the fall.
The Math 1–3 sequence is a slightly modified version of the Honors Mathematics Vision Project (MVP) curriculum. This
sequence covers topics in algebra, geometry, statistics, and analysis (pre-calculus). Students who successfully complete the
three-year sequence will have the logical reasoning and mathematical skills for everyday life and many careers. In addition,
they will be ready to take college level mathematics.
AP Calculus AB
AP Statistics
IB-SL Math Applications
and Interpretations (P)
IB-SL Math Analysis and
Approaches (P)
Exploration in Data Science (P)
AP Computer Science A
IB-SL Math Analysis
and Approaches
AP Calculus BC
AP Calculus AB
AP Statistics
IB-SL Math Applications
and Interpretations (P)
IB-HL Math Analysis and
Approaches (P)
Exploration in Data Science (P)
AP Computer Science A
The Advanced Sequence is an accelerated version of Math 1–3 that includes additional topics. The sequence assumes mas-
tery of algebra and geometry topics through Common Core Math 8. Each course in this sequence requires a considerable
amount of time and dedication (the same amount required for an AP or IB course). This sequence prepares students for a
course that combines the curriculum of IB-HL Math and AP Calculus BC. Students must take a placement test in the spring
of 8th grade to begin Advanced Math 1. Advanced Math 3 is the first year of the two-year IB-HL course. See page 6 for
details on math placement.
ADVANCED MATH 1 ADVANCED MATH 2 ADVANCED MATH 3
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
mathematics
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
64
mathematics
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
65
Many of our courses recommend or require students
to have a graphing calculator. The recommended mod-
els are: Texas Instruments’ TI 83+, TI 84, TI 86, and TI 89.
Berkeley High School textbook room has graphing calculators
to check out.
Mathematics Progression
Math 1 (P) Year
·
10 Credits
This course covers strands from algebra, geometry, and
statistics to emphasize the interconnected nature of math-
ematics. Specific topics include a deeper understanding of
algebraic manipulation, functions (linear, quadratic, and
exponential), applying linear models to data, using trans-
formational geometry to establish criteria for congruence,
coordinate geometry, and an introduction to matrices and
vectors. In addition, students will be expected to show
proficiency in the Common Core Standards for Math-
ematical Practice, such as modeling with mathematics,
attending to precision, and persevering in problem solv-
ing. This is the first year in the Math 1, Math 2, Math 3
sequence. This sequence prepares students for higher level
math courses such as AP Calculus AB, AP Statistics, and
IB-SL Math. UC/CSU (c)
Advanced Math 1 (P) Year
·
10 Credits
This is an accelerated, fast-paced course that rigorously cov-
ers all of the material covered in Math 1 and part of Math 2,
with additional topics, challenging proofs, and open-ended
problems. Students will also cover indirect and direct proofs
of both algebraic and geometric topics. Students will be
expected to explain the reasoning behind their solutions for
open-ended questions using formal, academic language. In
addition, students will demonstrate deep application of the
Common Core Standards for Mathematical Practice, such
as reasoning abstractly and quantitatively, constructing via-
ble arguments, and critiquing the reasoning of others. The
time commitment for this course is most similar to that of
an AP course. A graphing calculator is recommended. This
sequence prepares students for higher level math courses
such as AP Calculus BC, AP Statistics, and IB-HL Math.
UC/CSU Honors credit is NOT available for this course.
Prerequisite: Placement in Advanced courses is based
on Advanced Math 1 Placement Test score. See page 6 for
details on math placement. UC/CSU (c)
Math 2 (P) Year
·
10 Credits
This course covers strands from algebra, geometry, and sta-
tistics. Specific topics include quadratic functions and conic
sections; applying transformational geometry to quadratics;
exploring similarity and right triangle trigonometry; and
an introduction to probability. In addition, students will be
expected to show proficiency in the Common Core Stan-
dards for Mathematical Practice such as constructing viable
arguments and critiquing the reasoning of others, attending
to precision, and reasoning abstractly. This is the second year
in the Math 1, Math 2, and Math 3 sequence. This sequence
prepares students for higher-level math courses such as AP
Calculus AB, AP Statistics, and IB-SL Math. Prerequisite:
Grade 10–12 and “C” or better in Math 1. UC/CSU (c)
Advanced Math 2 (P) Year
·
10 Credits
This is an accelerated, fast paced course that rigorously cov-
ers the remaining topics of Math 2 and much of Math 3,
with additional topics, challenging proofs, and open ended
problems. Students will also cover indirect and direct proofs
of both algebraic and geometric topics. Students will be
expected to explain the reasoning behind their solutions for
open-ended questions using formal, academic language. In
addition, students will demonstrate deep application of the
Common Core Standards for Mathematical Practice such
as constructing viable arguments and critiquing the reason-
ing of others, looking for and making use of structure, and
reasoning abstractly and quantitatively. The time commit-
ment for this course is most similar to that of an AP course.
A graphing calculator is recommended. This sequence
prepares students for higher-level math courses such as AP
Calculus BC, AP Statistics, and IB-HL Math. UC/CSU Hon-
ors credit is NOT available for this course. Prerequisite:
Grade 10–12 and a grade of “B” or better in Advanced Math
1 or see page 6 for details on math placement. UC/CSU (c)
Math 3 (P) Year
·
10 Credits
This course covers strands from algebra, geometry, and
statistics. Specific topics include deeper work with func-
tions and inverses (including logarithmic, polynomial,
trigonometric, and rational functions), law of sines and
cosines, trigonometric identities, polar graphing, DeM-
oivre’s Theorem, modeling with geometry and functions,
normal distributions and sampling. In addition, students
will be expected to show proficiency in the Common Core
Standards for Mathematical Practice such as constructing
viable arguments and critiquing the reasoning of others,
attending to precision, and reasoning abstractly. This is
the third year in the Math 1, Math 2, Math 3 sequence.
A graphing calculator is recommended. This sequence
prepares students for higher level math courses such as AP
Calculus AB, AP Statistics, and IB-SL Math. Prerequi-
site: “C” or better in Math 2. UC/CSU (c)
Advanced Math 3 (H)(P) Year
·
10 Credits
This is an accelerated, fast paced course that completes the
remaining material of Math 3 with additional topics, chal-
lenging proofs, and open ended problems. Specific topics
include function analysis, trigonometric functions and
graphs, right triangle and wrapping functions trigonom-
etry, laws of sines and cosines, trigonometric identities,
complex numbers, polar graphing, DeMoivre’s theorem,
2-D and 3-D vectors, conic sections, parametric equations,
normal distributions, and the Binomial Theorem. Students
will be expected to explain the reasoning behind their solu-
tions for open-ended questions using formal, academic lan-
guage. In addition, students will demonstrate deep appli-
cation of the Common Core Standards for Mathematical
Practice such as constructing viable arguments and critiqu-
ing the reasoning of others, looking for and making use of
structure, and reasoning abstractly and quantitatively. The
time commitment for this course is most similar to that of
an AP course. A graphing calculator is recommended. This
sequence prepares students for higher level math courses
such as AP Calculus BC, AP Statistics, and IB-HL Math.
It is considered an Honors course by the UC/CSU system.
Prerequisite: Grade 11–12 and a grade of “B” or better in
Advanced Math 2. UC/CSU (c)
Senior Year Math Options
Explorations in Data Science (P) Year
·
10 Credits
How can we use data to make the best decisions for our own
lives? How can we analyze what’s happening to the world’s
natural resources, or examine biases in popular media?
Explorations in Data Science will introduce students to the
main ideas in data science through free tools such as Google
Sheets, Python, Data Commons and Tableau. Students will
learn to be data explorers in project-based units, through
which they will develop their understanding of data analy-
sis, sampling, correlation/causation, bias and uncertainty,
probability, modeling with data, making and evaluating
data-based arguments, the power of data in society, and
more! At the end of the course students will have a portfolio
of their data science work to showcase their newly developed
abilities. Prerequisite: Grade 12 and completion of Math 2
with “C” or better required. (Completion of Math 3 recom-
mended) UC/CSU (c)
IB-SL Math Applications and Interpretations
(SL)(P) Year
·
10 Credits
This course is open to seniors only and includes the study
of circular, polynomial, exponential, logarithmic, rational,
and radical functions, polar equations and complex num-
bers, vectors, simple probability and data analysis, limits,
continuity, and simple derivatives. The course develops the
skills needed to cope with the mathematical demands of a
technological society with an emphasis on the application
of math to real-life situations. Students are presumed to
have knowledge of linear, quadratic, exponential, and log-
arithmic equations, matrix arithmetic, elementary func-
tions, graphing complex numbers, counting and probabil-
ity. They will be required to learn the prerequisite topics to
a greater depth and degree of formality. Students will be
able to take the Math Studies SL level IB exam after com-
pletion of this course. A graphing calculator is required for
students who are taking the IB test. Prerequisite: Grade
12 and completion of Math 2 with “C” or better required.
(Completion of Math 3 recommended) UC/CSU (c)
IB-SL Math Analysis and Approaches
(SL)(P) Year
·
10 Credits
See course description on page 43. UC/CSU (c)
IB-HL Math Analysis and Approaches
(HL)(H)(P) Year
·
10 Credits
This course is offered exclusively in BIHS.
See course description on page 43. UC/CSU (c)
AP Statistics (H)(P) Year
·
10 Credits
This course will give an overview of inferential statistics
and probability: correlation, regression analysis, applied
normal curve approximation, intersection, union, and
dependence of two events, binomial distribution, condi-
tional probability and sampling. A graphing calculator is
recommended. Prerequisites: Grade 12 and comple-
tion of Math 3 with a grade of “C” or better. UC/CSU (c)
AP Calculus AB (H)(P) Year
·
10 Credits
This course provides students with the equivalent of one
semester of regular college level calculus following the
current AP syllabus and the opportunity to take the AP
exam for formal college credit (granted by most, but not
all, colleges and universities for a score of 3, 4, or 5). It
is considered an Honors course by the UC/CSU system.
A graphing calculator is recommended. Prerequisite:
Grade 12 and completion of Math 3 with a grade of “C”
or better. UC/CSU (c)
AP Calculus BC (H)(P) Year
·
10 Credits
This course provides students with the equivalent of two
plus semesters of regular college level calculus following
the current AP syllabus with additional topics. This course
moves at a very rapid pace, and students will have the
opportunity to take the AP exam for formal college credit
(granted by most, but not all, colleges and universities for a
score of 3, 4, or 5). It is considered an Honors course by the
UC/CSU system. A graphing calculator is required. Pre-
requisite: Grade 12 and completion of Advanced Math 3
with a grade of “B” or better. UC/CSU (c)
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
mathematics
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
66
multilingual program
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26 67
Multilingual Program (MLP)
Upon enrollment in BUSD, new families complete the Home Language survey to determine
other languages spoken at home. According to state law, if there’s another language spo-
ken at home, new students take the English Language Proficiency Assessment for Califor-
nia (ELPAC) within 30 days of enrollment. Students who score at levels 1-3 are considered
Multilingual Learners (MLs). They are placed in the Multilingual Program (MLP) where
they receive specialized courses to develop proficiency in English and content knowledge in
Math, Science and History. Multilingual Learners are typically new to the U.S. within the
past 6 years.
According to the BUSD Multilingual Learner Master
Plan, MLs who are “less than reasonably fluent” must be
placed in a Structured English Immersion program (SEI).
This includes a designated English Language Develop-
ment (ELD) class and SEI content classes. At Berkeley
High School, the MLP encourages MLs and their families
to continue developing their home language and culture.
The World Language Department offers classes for native
speakers of Spanish, French and Mandarin. The Mul-
tilingual Program monitors and supports multilingual
students who have mainstreamed into one of the five Small
Learning Communities at BHS. Our staff includes ELD
and SEI teachers, a program coordinator, a school coun-
selor and a bilingual home school liaison. We all work to
advocate for, and empower our students to reach their full
potential as scholars and community members. Our teach-
ers seek to create classroom environments where students
can build their academic English skills through interac-
tive structured student talk, differentiated and sheltered
instruction, culturally responsive practices, and predict-
able classroom routines. Our students, in turn, utilize the
tools given to them by their support providers to progres-
sively develop their English language proficiency, while
strengthening their content knowledge.
Multilingual Program General Guide for Placement:
Specific classes may vary year to year.
Structured English Immersion (new to the U.S. within 6 years)
Student Level ELD 1 ELD 2 ELD 3 ELD 4
Designated ELD Emerging Emerging/Beginning Expanding/Bridging Bridging
English Emerging Writing
and Reading
Emerging/Beginning Writing
and Reading Mainstream (Hives/SLC) Mainstream (Hives/SLC)
History SEI Ethnic Studies SEI World History Mainstream (Hives/SLC) Mainstream (Hives/SLC)
Math SEI Math 1 or 2 SEI Math 1 or 2 Mainstream (Hives/SLC) Mainstream (Hives/SLC)
Science SEI Integrated Science SEI Biology Mainstream (Hives/SLC) Mainstream (Hives/SLC)
PE or Elective PE/Art/Language for Native Speakers or an Appropriate Class to fulfill requirements for SLC and college eligibility
* P = A-G course for CSU/UC eligibility
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
9th Grade English learners, who have been in CA pub-
lic schools for longer than 4 years have access to academic
language learning in an Expository Writing class.
English Language Development Courses
Each English course offered is one-year long. English
Language Development (ELD) courses are coordinated
with ELD writing courses. The ELD writing course for
each level corresponds to the ELD level. Every ELD/ELD
writing course combination emphasizes oral language,
grammar/ sentence formation and writing/reading skills.
Vocabulary is strengthened and oral language develop-
ment is expanded through the study of short stories and
novels, utilizing literary analysis and writing as a follow-up
to the stories.
The ELD levels in this catalog are currently determined
by a combination of results from the English Language
Proficiency Assessments for California (ELPAC) that range
from levels 1 through 4 and the proficiency level descrip-
tors from the 2012 California English Language Develop-
ment Standards (CA ELD Standards).
Within the MLP program all the ELD courses provide stu-
dents with English credits for meeting high school gradu-
ation requirements. Additionally, ELD Levels 3 and 4 are
considered college preparatory courses that meet the A-G
college eligibility requirements. For further information,
please call the Multilingual Office (C107) at 510-644-6949.
ELD 1 Year
·
10 Credits
This is a beginning course for Newcomer students who
have not previously studied English or who have very
basic English skills. Students in this course usually
score at a low level 1 on the ELPAC. The course includes
vocabulary and language structures with an emphasis
on communicative competence. This course receives
BHS English credit. Enrollment is concurrent in ELD
Writing 1.
ELD Writing 1 Year
·
10 Credits
This course focuses on integrating reading skills,
vocabulary building from the study of short stories, and
oral language development related to the story content
and writing as a follow-up to the story. Students in
this course usually score at a low level 1 on the ELPAC.
Students are introduced to the writing process through
writers’ workshop. This course receives BHS English
credit. Enrollment is concurrent in ELD 1.
ELD 2 Year
·
10 Credits
This course extends the basic skills of ELD 1 in listening
comprehension, speaking/oral communication, reading
and writing. Students in this course usually score at a
high level 1 on or low level 2 on the ELPAC and/or are
students who have completed ELD 1 coursework. This
course receives BHS English credit. Enrollment is con-
current in ELD Writing 2.
ELD Writing 2 Year
·
10 Credits
Taken with ELD 2 , this course focuses on consolidating
many of the beginning skills through extended practice
and instruction as students gain the new skills that are
presented at this level. Students in this course usually
score at a high level 1 on or low level 2 on the ELPAC
and/or are students who have completed ELD 1 course-
work. Instruction emphasizes interpersonal commu-
nication and academic skills. This course receives BHS
English credit. There is concurrent enrollment in ELD 2.
ELD 3 - SEI Literature of
Diversity (P) Year
·
10 Credits
In this course students continue to develop their listen-
ing, speaking, reading and writing skills in English
while also expanding their vocabulary with more preci-
sion and using grammar to communicate effectively.
Students in this class read a wide variety of narrative
and expository texts while also being encouraged to
think critically about the world around them and to use
academic language in order to succeed. This course has
a strong emphasis on culturally responsive teaching and
offers students multiple opportunities to share about
and be proud of the diverse cultures they bring to the
classroom. They also read short stories and novels from
different parts of the world and engage in literature cir-
cles. Students in this course usually score at a high level
2 on the ELPAC and/or are students who successfully
complete ELD 2 coursework. This course receives BHS
English credit. There is concurrent enrollment in ELD
3 - Expository Writing (P). UC/CSU (b)
ELD 4 - SEI World Literature (P) Year
·
10 Credits
This course focuses on the enhancement of students’ lis-
tening, speaking, reading, and writing skills in English
through the study of ethnically diverse literature. Class
work includes reading and discussion of the literature,
many kinds of writing. Students in this course usually
score at a low level 3 on the ELPAC and/or are students
who have successfully completed ELD 3 coursework. At
this level students use literature as a model for learning
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
multilingual program
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
68
multilingual program
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
69
a wide variety of good writing techniques, which they
incorporate in their own writing. There is concurrent
enrollment in ELD 4 - SEI Composition (P). UC/CSU (b)
Structured English Immersion (SEI) Core
Courses
SEI Seminar History (P) - For ELD 1
Year · 10 Credits
This course is divided into two semesters. The first
semester begins with an examination of identity in
which students delve deeper into their own personal
culture and heritage. Who am I? Where do I come
from? How do I fit into the world around us? Next,
they broaden their studies to learn about the experi-
ences and perspectives of people within and beyond
the United States. Students will study race, migration,
and immigration and make personal connections while
investigating the history of current political and global
dynamics. In the second semester, we focus on issues
directly facing youth today: healthy decision making,
media literacy, substance awareness, nutrition, sexuality,
and gender identity. This semester’s work is grounded
in academic case studies that look at the evolution of
these issues over time. The semester culminates with an
evidence based research project on a current social issue.
This course is a Structured English Immersion course
that uses specially designed instructional techniques to
meet the proficiency level of students. UC/CSU (a)
SEI World History (P) - For ELD2
Year · 10 Credits
This course covers major themes in modern world his-
tory with an exploration of systems of power, resistance
to power, and methods of social change. Topics include
the age of Revolutions, industrialization and globaliza-
tion, colonization and independence movements, the
rise of Communism and Totalitarianism, and the World
Wars the Industrial Revolution, Imperialism, the rise of
Communism, and the World Wars. There is a focus on
building historical thinking, writing and research skills.
This course is a Structured English Immersion course
that uses specially designed instructional techniques to
meet the proficiency level of students. US/CSU (a)
SEI Math 1 (P) Year · 10 Credits
This course covers strands from algebra, geometry, and
statistics to emphasize the interconnected nature of
mathematics. Specific topics include a deeper under-
standing of algebraic manipulation, functions (linear,
quadratic, and exponential), applying linear models
to data, using transformational geometry to establish
criteria for congruence, coordinate geometry, and an
introduction to matrices and vectors. In addition, stu-
dents will be expected to show proficiency in the Com-
mon Core Standards for Mathematical Practice, such
as modeling with mathematics, attending to precision,
and persevering in problem solving. This course also
is a Structured English Immersion course that uses
specially designed instructional techniques to meet the
proficiency level of students. This is the second year
in the SEI Math 1 Newcomer, SEI Math 1, SEI Math 2
sequence. UC/CSU (c)
SEI Math 2 (P) Year · 10 Credits
This course covers strands from algebra, geometry, and
statistics. Specific topics include quadratic functions
and conic sections; applying transformational geometry
to quadratics; exploring similarity and right triangle
trigonometry; and an introduction to probability. In
addition, students will be expected to show proficiency
in the Common Core Standards for Mathematical Prac-
tice such as constructing viable arguments and critiqu-
ing the reasoning of others, attending to precision, and
reasoning abstractly. This course also is a Structured
English Immersion course that uses specially designed
instructional techniques to meet the proficiency level of
students. This is the third year in the SEI Math 1 New-
comer, SEI Math 1, SEI Math 2 sequence. Prerequisite:
Grade 10–12 and “C” or better in Math 1. UC/CSU (c)
SEI Integrated Science (P) - For ELD 1
Year · 10 Credits
This is an introductory science course which combines
earth science, cosmology, ecology, biology, physics, and
chemistry. It is first in the Multilingual Program sci-
ence sequence. The class is composed of 9th-12th grades
and may contain multiple EL levels. This course also is a
Structured English Immersion course that uses specially
designed instructional techniques to meet the proficiency
level of students. This course satisfies one of the two years
of science required for graduation. UC/CSU (g)
SEI Biology (P) - For ELD 2 Year · 10 Credits
This course is a laboratory course that covers con-
cepts of biology based on the Next Generation Science
Standards. It is the second course in the Multilingual
Program science sequence and alternates by year with
Chemistry. Topics include the origin of life, unity and
diversity of life, bio-energetics (cell respiration, pho-
tosynthesis, enzyme functions) genetics, evolution,
anatomy and physiology, ecology and global climate
change. Emphasis is placed on understanding science
and its role in society. This course also is a Structured
English Immersion course that uses specially designed
instructional techniques to meet the proficiency level of
students. UC/CSU (d)
Expository Writing (P)
This course is designed for ninth-grade English
Learners who are in mainstream classes, but have
not passed the ELPAC or have not met other reclas-
sification criteria yet. This is an English class with
an emphasis on academic writing and literacy
aimed at empowering students with the acquisition
of strong language skills and effective study habits.
This class focuses on developing advanced reading
and writing skills, and building self-confidence and
perseverance as a student. Students in this course
will increase their preparedness to read and under-
stand increasingly difficult texts, and to clearly and
confidently express ideas in class discussions and
writing assignments. UC/CSU (b)
multilingual program
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
70
physical education
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26 Physical Education
The Physical Education Department offers a wide variety of co-educational courses. Physi-
cal conditioning is an integral part of all courses.
Twenty (20) credits of Physical Education, taken in four
semesters, are required for BHS graduation. Since physical
fitness is a lifetime need, students are encouraged to elect
Physical Education courses beyond the requirement for
graduation. All Physical Education classes may be repeated
for credit. Zero period options are available.
Offerings may vary year-to-year, dependent on student
sign-up. Students must provide first and second choices
and may not receive their first choice.
Badminton Year · 10 Credits
This course covers the skills and strategy of badminton.
Students will participate in singles and doubles tourna-
ments.
Basketball Year · 10 Credits
This class will be learning, playing, and improving in all
aspects of basketball. We will be working on competi-
tive team building through tournament play. This class
does not require basketball acumen, but does require a
passion for the game.
Introduction to Fitness Year
·
10 Credits
Introduction to fitness is designed to reach the high
school student who may not be interested in traditional
PE activities like sports etc., but would still like to learn
how to live a healthy lifestyle. With that goal in mind
we will learn a variety of exercises so any student com-
pleting this course will feel comfortable entering a gym
and getting started on a workout without feeling intimi-
dated or embarrassed. All workouts will be low to mod-
erate in intensity. Students will set and work towards
personal fitness goals. Upon completion of this course
you will have a solid foundation in resistance training
and be able to create a personalized fitness plan. Dress-
ing in PE clothing is encouraged, but optional.
Soccer Year · 10 Credits
This course is designed to give students the opportunity
to learn and develop fundamental and advanced
skills and strategies of soccer activities. Students will
be empowered to develop positive behaviors in team
activities.
Team Sports Year
·
10 Credits
A traditional Physical Education class that rotates
through various team sports. The Sports Education
model will allow students avenues to incorporate fitness
concepts with a focus on mastery of skills and strategies
necessary to succeed in the team sports environment.
Dance Courses
Dance courses may be taken for BHS Physical Education
or Performing Arts credit and UC/CSU Performing Arts
credit.
Beginning Modern/Jazz Dance (P) Year
·
10
Credits
Everyone is welcome. This is a mixed level class, appro-
priate for students with little to no dance training,
along with experienced dancers who are new to Mod-
ern & Jazz. This course introduces the building blocks
of Modern/Jazz technique, including flexibility and
strength training, turns, weight shifts, floor work, and
partnered movement. Daily practice includes technique,
improvisation and creative composition, in a collabora-
tive, supportive environment. Students perform in one
formal dance concert each semester, along with multiple
informal studio performances throughout the year. This
course may be taken as PE or Performing Arts credit.
9th–12th grade. UC/CSU (f)
Advanced Dance/Dance
Projects (P) Year
·
10 Credits
Also known as Advanced Dance Lab, this course builds
upon the skills developed in Beginning Modern/Jazz.
We focus on more challenging Modern/Jazz technique,
including faster tempos, longer compositions, inver-
sions, weight exchange and Contact Improvisation.
Students are expected to have a comfortable knowl-
edge of choreographic elements. Dancers have multiple
performances throughout the year, including a formal
concert of student-directed choreography in the spring
semester, all of which is required. Guest Choreographers
and Master Classes enrich the curriculum throughout
the year. Course syllabus may include: improvisation as
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
71
performance, performance critique, field trips to live per-
formance, dance on film and research projects. Students
are required to attend rehearsals outside of class time.
This course may be taken as PE or Performing Arts credit.
10th–12th grade. Prerequisite: “A” or “B” in Beginning
Dance or teacher recommendation. UC/CSU (f)
Dance Production (H)(P) Year
·
10 Credits
Honors Class (Pending Approval)
The Berkeley High School Dance Production Class func-
tions as a pre-professional dance company. This is an
honor’s course. Advanced dancers, with proficiency in
Modern, Ballet, Jazz, HipHop and other dance styles are
encouraged to audition. This class focuses on developing
stage presence, fostering creative expression and discov-
ering choreographic voice. Students create and direct
original choreography, working with peers to see their
artistic ideas from inception to fruition. Assignments
are geared towards expanding choreographic tech-
niques and may include improvisational performance
scores, outdoor performance and interdisciplinary
projects combining text, dance and music. In the spring
semester, the class has the opportunity to be directed
by a professional guest choreographer. Dancers create
an electronic portfolio demonstrating artistic growth
throughout the year. Rehearsals outside of class time are
required. Dance Production performs twice yearly, over
several weekends, all of which are required. This course
may be taken as PE or Performing Arts credit. Prereq-
uisite: This course is available to Juniors and Seniors by
audition only. Auditions are held the previous February.
UC/CSU (f)
African Diaspora Dance
African American Studies courses which may be
taken for BHS Physical Education or Performing Arts
credit and UC/CSU Performing Arts credit:
African Diaspora Beginning
Dance (P) Year · 10 Credits
As one of the courses of the African American Stud-
ies Program, the objective of this course is to pres-
ent means by which one can understand African and
African-derived cultures through direct experience in
the education of music and dance and its relationship to
and influence on contemporary dance. While provid-
ing historical structure, technique, and discipline, stu-
dents are exposed to a wide variety of dance styles and
are provided with an alternative learning atmosphere,
which is beneficial physically, mentally and spiritually.
9th through 12th grade. UC/CSU (f) or (PE credit)
African Diaspora Advanced
Dance (P) Year
·
10 Credits
This is the most intense level of African Dance. Students
delve into folklore and mythology as manifested in cer-
emonies and rhythmic movements. The interrelations of
music, dance and dance/drama are explored. Students,
by choreographing a piece to be performed on stage,
are able to make comparative analysis of the varied
dance forms and how one has influenced the other. For
the advanced student, this course provides an oppor-
tunity to accurately depict and perpetuate African and
African-derived folklore and other dance forms in per-
formances on stage; to better acquaint the community
with Africa’s past, present, and future. Prerequisites:
11th and 12th grade students. “C” or better in Begin-
ning/Intermediate African Diaspora Dance, and teacher
approval. UC/CSU (f) or (PE credit)
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
physical education
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
72
science
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26 73
Science
Science Course Progressions (See the end of these tables for the list of science electives.)
9th 10th 11th 12th
Academic Choice (AC)
Physics 1 ( P) Chemistry (P) Biology (P) *Electives
AP Chemistry (H)(P) AMPS (Academy of Medicine & Public Service)
Physics 1 (P) AMPS - Chemistry (P) AHA (Arts & Humanities Academy)
Physics 1 (P) AP Biology (H)(P)
*Electives (taken concurrently
with Biology)
AMPS - Bio Health Sciences (P) *Electives (taken concurrently
with BioHealth Science)
*Electives
AHA - Anat & Physiology (H)(P) AHA -Chemistry (P) *Electives
*Electives (taken concurrently
with AHA-Chemistry)
BIHS (Berkeley International High School)
Physics 1 (P) Chemistry (P) Biology (P) Medicine (SL)(HL)
AP Chemistry (H)(P) IB-Biology (SL) (P) IB-Biology (SL)(P)
B-SL Environmental Systems
& Societies (SL)(P)
IB-SL Environmental Systems
& Societies (SL)(P)
*Electives (taken concurrently
with Biology)
*Electives
CAS (Communications Arts & Sciences)
Physics 1 (P) CAS Anatomy & Physiology
(H)(P)
CAS-Chemistry (P) *Electives
*Electives (taken concurrently
with CAS-Chemistry)
*Science Electives:
AP Biology (H)
AP Chemistry (H)
AP Computer Science Principles
(CTE)
AP Environmental Science (H)
AP Physics 1 (H)
AP Physics C (H)
Computer Science IB SL (CTE)
Computer Science IB HL2 (CTE)
Honors Anatomy & Physiology (H)
Mechatronics Engineering (CTE)
Robotics (P)(CTE)
ELECTIVES THAT REQUIRE A TWO YEAR SEQUENCE:
Biotechnology 1/2 (P)(11th grade)
Biotechnology 3/4 (P)(12th grade)
Fire Science (P)(11th grade)
EMT (12th grade)
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
Science
Students in different learning communities may follow unique science progressions. Check
the course progressions listed on the previous page and on the first page of each commu-
nity’s section to see the progression. Course descriptions follow.
In planning which science courses to take, students and parents need to understand the fol-
lowing criteria and basic terminology. Please read the Course Descriptions and study
each community’s Progression Chart carefully for specific information about each
course, prerequisites and credits.
The UC Office of the President requires the following: Two
years (three years recommended) of laboratory science pro-
viding fundamental knowledge in two of these three foun-
dational subjects: biology, chemistry and physics.
In order to graduate from BHS, a student must earn a “D”
or better for two years of science: one year of a physical sci-
ence and one year of a life science. However, most four-year
colleges and universities require a minimum of two years
of college-preparatory (P) laboratory science from two
diﬀerent areas, and many recommend three years, with a
minimum grade of “C”.
The following list indicates which courses are accepted for
the BHS graduation requirement of one year of Physical
Science and one year of Life Science. While all science
courses will help to meet BHS graduation require-
ments, only those courses designated as “d” meet
the UC/CSU college science admission eligibility
requirement. See individual course descriptions for UC/
CSU designations.
Physical Science
Chemistry
AP Chemistry (H)
Physics 1 (P)
AP Physics 1 (H)
AP Physics C (H)
Life Science
Biology (P)
AP Biology (H)
IB Biology (SL)
Anatomy and Physiology (H)
Biological Health Science (P)(CTE)
Biotech 3/4 (P)(CTE)
Science courses that can count as either a
Physical Science or Life Science
Integrated Science (P)
Biotech 1/2 (P)(CTE)
IB Environmental Systems and Societies (SL)
AP Environmental Science (H)(CTE)
Honors, Advanced Placement and IB Courses
The following courses are approved to receive UC/CSU extra
honors credit.
AP Biology (H)
AP Environmental Science (H)(CTE)
AP Physics 1 (H)
AP Physics C (H)
Anatomy and Physiology (H)
AP Chemistry (H)
IB Biology SL (H)
IB Environmental Systems & Societies SL (H)
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
science
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
74
science
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
75
AP/IB Science
Advanced Placement (AP) and International Baccaleure-
ate (IB) science courses prepare students to take a rigor-
ous examination that may allow for college credit for the
course taken.
Restrictions on AP and IB Placement: Students should
consider whether they want to sign up for an AP
course as they will not be allowed to drop an AP or IB
class. Students are strongly recommended to attend an
informational meeting in the spring before the course,
at which time they will be given a sample assignment to
complete and told about the expectations of the course.
Please read the course descriptions carefully and pay
special attention to the sections within the descriptions
designated Prerequisites, Restrictions, and Advice.
Integrated Science (P) Year
·
10 Credits
This is an introductory science course which combines
earth science, cosmology, ecology, biology, physics, and
chemistry. It is recommended for senior students who
wish to take a college preparatory science class but who
have not yet earned a “C” or better in Physics 1, Chem-
istry, and/or Biology. This course satisfies one of the two
years of science required for graduation. Grade 12 only.
UC/CSU (g)
Biotechnology 1/2 (P)(CTE) Year
·
10 Credits
See course descriptions on page 14.
Biotechnology 3/4 (P)(CTE) Year
·
10 Credits
See course descriptions on page 14.
Biology (P) Year
·
10 Credits
This course is a junior and senior level laboratory course
that covers concepts of biology based on the Next Gener-
ation Science Standards. Topics include the origin of life,
unity and diversity of life, bio-energetics (cell respiration,
photosynthesis, enzyme functions) genetics, evolution,
anatomy and physiology, ecology and global climate
change. Emphasis is placed on understanding science
and its role in society. Prerequisites: Grades 11-12.
Completion of Physics 1 and Chemistry. UC/CSU (d)
AP Biology (H)(P) Year
·
10 Credits
This Advanced Placement course is designed to be the
equivalent of a college introductory biology course taken
by biology majors. This course differs from Biology with
respect to the textbook used, the range and depth of top-
ics covered and the time and effort required by students.
Molecular, cellular and evolutionary biology represent
approximately 50% of the course material. Organismic
and population biology is studied from a molecular, cel-
lular and developmental viewpoint. Advice: Skill in alge-
braic reasoning is required for success. Students must be
able to recall basic facts and synthesize these into major
concepts and themes. Time spent in reading the text is
about twice that expected for Biology. Prerequisites:
Grades 11-12. Completion of Physics 1 and “C” or better
in Chemistry. Students must attend an informational
meeting in the spring before the course. UC/CSU (d)
IB Biology (SL)(H)(P) Year
·
10 Credits
This class is offered exclusively in BIHS. See course
description on page 43. UC/CSU (d)
AHA Honors Anatomy and
Physiology (H)(P) Year
·
10 Credits
This class is offered exclusively in AHA. See course
description on page 30. UC/CSU (d)
CAS Honors Anatomy and
Physiology (H)(P) Year
·
10 Credits
This class is offered exclusively in CAS. See course
description on page 48. UC/CSU (d)
Honors Anatomy and
Physiology (H)(P) Year
·
10 Credits
This is an honors elective course devoted to the in-depth
study of the human body with applications from his-
tology, bacteriology, and chemistry. Major systems of
the human body are stressed, using requisite materials
from many of the animal phyla. Extensive laboratory
exercises are provided as well as collateral examinations
of current studies in the human sciences. Individual
student research investigations are encouraged. Advice:
Students enrolling in this course should realize that this
is a college level course and may require more study and
preparation time than required in a normal high school
course. Prerequisites: Grades 11-12. Completion of
Physics 1, Chemistry/AP Chemistry, and Biology/AP/IB
Biology. Juniors may only enroll if they are concurrently
enrolled in Biology. UC/CSU (d)
AP Environmental Science
(H)(P)(CTE) Year
·
10 Credits
The equivalent of an introductory college course in
environmental science, this is a comprehensive, inte-
grated exploration of biological, chemical and physical
aspects of ecological issues, principles and methods,
including field study. The interdisciplinary curriculum
draws on interrelationships between the natural and
social sciences, and more global considerations, such as
environmental justice and ethics. Topics covered include
ecosystem and biome study, managing,restoring, and
protecting ecosystems, energy efficiency and renewable
energy, global climate change and ozone loss, water
and land resources, and sustaining human societies.
Prerequisites: Grades 11-12. Completion of Physics
1, Chemistry/AP Chemistry, and Biology/AP Biology.
Juniors may only enroll if they are concurrently enrolled
in Biology. UC/CSU (d)
Physics 1 (P) Year
·
10 Credits
Physics 1 is a Freshman, algebra-based laboratory course
that introduces the fundamental concepts of physics.
This course is based on the Next Generation Science
Standards and is designed to help students construct an
understanding of both physics concepts and the math-
ematical foundations of the physical world. Students
explore these concepts using laboratory experiences
to strengthen problem-solving skills and learn basic
experimental techniques. This inquiry driven program is
tightly aligned with the 9th grade Common Core Math 1
course, reinforcing the math concepts covered. Students
will study physics principles through observing, analyz-
ing and interpreting data, and reporting experimental
outcomes, including the identification of inconsistent
results and sources of error. The course surveys the tra-
ditional topics of physics, with emphasis on mechanics,
wave phenomena, electricity, magnetism, and energy.
UC/CSU (d-lab science credit)
AP Physics 1 (H)(P) Year
·
10 Credits
AP Physics 1 is an algebra-based, introductory college-
level physics course. Students cultivate their understand-
ing of physics through inquiry-based investigations as
they explore these topics: kinematics; dynamics; circular
motion and gravitation; energy; momentum; simple
harmonic motion; torque and rotational motion; electric
charge and electric force; DC circuits; and mechanical
waves and sound. Prerequisites: Grades 11-12. Prior
or concurrent enrollment in Math 3. Completion of
Physics 1, Chemistry/AP Chemistry, and Biology/AP/IB
Biology. Juniors may only enroll if they are concurrently
enrolled in Biology. UC/CSU (d)
AP Physics C (H)(P) Year
·
10 Credits
AP Physics C is a calculus-based, college-level physics
course, especially appropriate for students planning to
specialize or major in physical science or engineering.
The course is divided into two sections - Mechanics
and Electricity & Magnetism. The Mechanics portion
explores topics such as kinematics; Newton’s laws of
motion; work, energy and power; systems of particles
and linear momentum; circular motion and rotation;
and oscillations and gravitation. The Electricity and
Magnetism portion explores topics such as electrostat-
ics; conductors, capacitors, and dielectrics; electric cir-
cuits; magnetic fields; and electromagnetism. Introduc-
tory differential and integral calculus is used throughout
the course. Prerequisites: Grade 12. Concurrent
enrollment in (or prior completion of) AP/IB Calculus.
Completion of Physics 1, Chemistry/AP Chemistry, and
Biology/AP Biology. Enrollment in AP Physics is a year-
long commitment and requires submission of test results
for the corresponding AP test. Students should attend an
informational meeting in the spring before the course.
UC/CSU (d)
IB-SL Environmental Systems
& Societies (H)(SL) Year
·
10 Credits
This class is offered exclusively in BIHS. See course
description on page 43. UC/CSU (d)
Chemistry (P) Year
·
10 Credits
This course is a laboratory course that covers concepts
of Chemistry based on the Next Generation Science
Standards.
This course considers information necessary for a basic
understanding of the chemical behavior of matter. Such
topics as atomic-molecular theory weight relations, the
mole concept, the behavior of gases, solutions, the struc-
ture of matter, equilibrium, acid-base theory, oxidation-
reduction reactions and chemical bonding are covered.
Experimentation is stressed and is used to allow stu-
dents to discover principles for themselves. Prerequi-
sites: Grades 10-12. Completion of Math 1 and Physics
1. UC/CSU (d)
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
SCIENCE
76
science
AP Chemistry (H)(P) Year
·
10 Credits
This course provides an opportunity for the more able
students to pursue a college level course. Emphasis is on
chemistry as an intellectual activity and on the rigor-
ous training in fundamentals needed for future work
in chemistry or related fields. Topics covered include
the structure of matter, reactions, descriptive chemistry
and chemical calculations. The laboratory will involve
individual observations of chemical substances and
reactions, the recording and interpretation of data, and
the calculation of results based on the obtained data.
Students enrolling in this course should realize that it
is a college-level course and as such may require more
study and preparation time than required in a regular
high school course. Prerequisites: Grades 10-12.
Strong interest in science, and a “C” or better in Math
1. Completion of Physics 1. Success in this class does
not require any previous knowledge of chemistry but
does require good algebra, reading and problem-solving
skills. UC/CSU (d)
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
77
visual & performing arts
Visual & Performing Arts
Arts programs are a vital component of a well-rounded education for all students. Berkeley
High’s Arts programs provide excellent preparation for the student who plans to focus on
the arts in college or career. The BHS community believes that art courses benefit all
students because the process of creating and critiquing art engages students in higher order
thinking skills, such as analysis, synthesis, evaluation, and flexible, imaginative thinking.
The art disciplines of the BHS Arts Department, Perform-
ing Arts (Dance, Music, Drama) and Visual Arts, cover
the California State Board of Education Arts Standards for
artistic perception, creative expression, historical and cul-
tural context, aesthetic valuing and connections, relations,
and applications. All classes fulfill the one-year Visual and
Performing Arts requirements for BHS and UC/CSU eligibil-
ity. Students are encouraged to pursue the diverse offerings of
arts courses well beyond this one year.
Art electives are year-long classes. Offerings may vary year-
to-year, depending on student sign-up. Students should
provide first and second choices and may not receive their
first choice.
Visual Arts Courses
Drawing (P) Year
·
10 Credits
Students will learn the foundational skills needed to
draw real world objects. The course study will focus on
line, shape/form, shading, perspective, positive/negative
space, principles of composition, and the elements of
design. Drawing techniques, the use of art vocabulary,
exhibitions, critiques, and portfolio building will be
explored. Students will work on developing a personal
style. Media used will be pencils, erasers, charcoal, ink
& pen, as well as an array of different papers. Students
will keep up an active sketchbook. UC/CSU (f)
Advanced Drawing & Painting (P) Year
·
10 Credits
This course is an in-depth exploration of drawing,
painting, and design with student-led projects as well
as class projects. The development of each student’s
individual style is further accomplished through topics
ranging from abstraction to realism, along with varied
problem-solving themes. Color will be taught as well as
advanced composition, varied subject matter, and an art
history component. There will be a range of drawing and
painting media, including acrylics. There will be mixed
media and projects that include poetry and creative
writing. Students will have exhibitions, critiques, port-
folio building, and guest presenters. Students will keep
up an active sketchbook. Prerequisite: Satisfactory
completion of Drawing. UC/CSU (f)
Ceramics (P) Year
·
10 Credits
This course is an introduction to the basic techniques
of hand-building and the Potter’s Wheel. The emphasis
is on both pottery and sculpture. Students will learn a
variety of surface design techniques including colored
slips and glazing. In addition to constructing in clay,
students will be introduced to the Art History and Art
History of Ceramics. There is an emphasis on design,
craft, process, and reflection in order to develop the
work and the idea within the work. Second semester we
will deepen our study of what was introduced in the first
semester and there will be a focus on personal meaning/
style, design, and learning more advanced building and
decorating methods and techniques. Materials are pro-
vided. UC/CSU (f)
Advanced Ceramics (P) Year
·
10 Credits
This class continues with handbuilding and the Potter’s
Wheel with an emphasis on thinking more conceptu-
ally about the media. Students will build upon what
they know and learn advanced construction and surface
design techniques. Students will learn more about the
chemistry of Ceramics including making slips, glazes,
and firing. In addition to constructing in clay, students
will further their understanding of Art History and Art
History of Ceramics. There is an emphasis on design,
craft, process, and reflection in order to develop the
work and the idea within the work. All students will
create a digital portfolio that illustrates a personal voice
within media and an exploration of the creative process.
Materials are provided. UC/CSU (f)
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
visual & performing arts
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
78
visual & performing arts
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
79
IB/AP Art History (H)(P) Year
·
10 Credits
This course is an introduction to the history of art. The
majesty and diversity of the visual arts are examined in
detailed discussions. Students analyze significant art-
works from Classical Greece to Song Dynasty China to
Baroque France to global art in the 21st century in terms
of their social and historical context. We will focus our
studies on methods of visual and contextual analysis,
understanding how a particular artwork’s form reveals
its meaning and why those works were made. There
will also be regular art-making projects, such as making
paint, to help us understand the role artists’ materials
play in the development of art. No previous experience
in a studio art class is required, although students will
need a high degree of commitment to academic work.
Open to all sophomores, juniors, and seniors by permis-
sion of the instructor. UC/CSU (g)
AP Studio Art (H)(P) (CTE) Year
·
10 Credits
The Advanced Placement Studio Art program enables
highly motivated students to do college-level work in
studio art while still in high school. AP Studio Art is
not based on a written examination, instead, candidates
submit a portfolio of work for evaluation at the end
of the school year. Students must develop discipline,
personal insight, critical judgment, and technical skill
necessary for the preparation of this portfolio. Prereq-
uisite: Advanced Drawing and Painting. UC/CSU (f)
IB Visual Arts (SL)(HL)(H)(P) Year
·
10 Credits
This Studio Art can be taken for one or two years, and is
open to all juniors and seniors from any learning commu-
nity at Berkeley High. In this fast-paced, interdisciplinary
art course, students are taught to think like a contempo-
rary artist; using art-making as a way to research science,
history, religion, psychology and other subjects. Students
will develop an investigation question or theme driven
by their own interests. They will explore this question
through research, writing, discussion, performance art,
drawing, painting, and sculpture. Students will create a
research workbook, documenting their thinking in the
form of writing, sketches, and images. Each student will
also make between 10-20 artworks in any media they
choose and will participate in the Spring Exhibition.
Although students need a high degree of self-motivation
to succeed in this course, you do not have to have highly
advanced art skills to excel. Prerequisite: One year of art
or permission of the instructor. UC/CSU (f)
Creative Arts (P) Year
·
10 Credits
This class is an introduction to sewing, sculpture, draw-
ing, printmaking, and painting techniques. Media and art
making possibilities include fabric, cardboard sculpture,
wire sculpture, paper cuts and collage, papier-mâché,
drawing, and printmaking techniques. Students will learn
how to use a variety of tools, including xacto knives, glue
guns, hammer and drills, linoleum carving tools, sewing
and embroidery tools, wire-working tools, drawing medi-
ums, and printmaking equipment. Students will leave
this class with a strong foundation for intermediate and
advanced art classes in any media. UC/CSU (f)
Art of Video Production
(P)(CTE) Year
·
10 Credits
In this class, students become media literate by produc-
ing 5–6 video projects over the course of the year. Each
project builds upon the previous ones in terms of skills
and storytelling techniques. Camera operation, shot com-
position, audio recording and computer-based editing are
emphasized. All completed projects are screened for—and
critiqued by—the class and students are required to submit
their finished pieces to Berkeley High’s film festival and to
external festivals.
As part of Berkeley High’s school-wide focus on literacy,
students complete regular writing assignments like project
proposals, Producers Statements, and movie reviews. In
addition to the video projects, students begin developing the
skills needed for careers in video; each semester, they com-
plete two Community Service Projects (CSP) in which they
provide video recording services for Berkeley High and the
community. Close study of feature and documentary films
contribute to students’ media literacy and inspire their work
as producers. Prerequisites: None. UC/CSU (f)
Advanced Studio Editing (P)(CTE) Year
·
10 Credits
In this class, students build upon the video production
skills they acquired in Art of Video Production as they
shift to creating fictional narrative films. In the class, stu-
dents will sharpen their media literacy, refine their story-
telling skills, and learn industry standard screenwriting
protocols. Using professional-grade equipment, students
complete a series of skills-building short films, and then
several narrative filmmaking projects over the course
of the year in a variety of genres. Students refine their
production process in each stage of video production.
In pre-production, they conduct research into inspira-
tion, develop story ideas, scripts and detailed production
plans. During production, students will use a range of
professional equipment to record their shots. In post-pro-
duction, students will develop skills in Premier Pro and
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
visual & performing arts
visual & performing arts
the Adobe Suite as well as further their understanding of
editing styles including montage, use of parallel editing,
and nonlinear storytelling structures.
As part of Berkeley High’s school-wide focus on literacy,
students complete regular writing assignments including
production proposals and plans, statements of artistic
intention, and film critiques. Guest speakers and field
trips facilitate students’ career exploration, as do projects
proposed to the class by community members. Close
study of feature films contribute to students’ media lit-
eracy and inspire their work. Prerequisites: Satisfactory
completion of Art of Video Production or an equivalent
course or by permission of the teacher. This course is open
to students from all learning communities. UC/CSU (f)
IB Film (SL)(HL)(H)(P)(CTE) Year
·
10 Credits
This course is a two year film studies and video produc-
tion course that may be taken for one year at SL Level or
for two years at either SL or HL level.
Year One students learn the basics of academic film
study through formalist film theory and analysis while
looking at short film from around the world. They then
explore genre studies, critical theory as applied to film
and film movements and comparative film studies. Stu-
dents complete the academic requirements for the IB
Film Assessment. In addition to the academic study of
film, Year one students spend the year exploring film
production and production roles through experimenta-
tion, skills work, and video production in the roles of
cinematographer, editor, director, writer, and sound
designer. Students explore working with a range of entry
level industry equipment including DSLR and Mirror-
less Cameras, gimbals, rigs, sound recording equipment,
and the Adobe Creative Suite with a focus on Premiere
Pro. Student make several films throughout the year as
they hone skills in each area eventually selecting 3 roles
to focus on for their portfolio. Additionally, students
learn to give and receive effective critique in a support-
ive community minded environment.
Year Two students focus primarily on advanced produc-
tion skills and collaboration as they work to build out
their portfolios and build skills as collaborators in pro-
duction. Having selected production roles for their port-
folio, students complete a number of short films focusing
on improving their skills in those roles. Students also
work on advanced camera work with Black Magic Cam-
eras, editing skills including color grading (primary and
secondary), masking and compositing, advanced sound
design and foley and post production sound, character
development for screenwriting, and honing their skills as
directors. A large focus of the second semester is a longer
collaborative film that students work in teams to produce,
developing their skills as effective collaborators. Students
continue to grow their skills in critique by taking the
lead in critique sessions for both the Year 1 and Year 2
students. Additionally, when sections are combined Year
2 students support the learning of Year 1 through skill
shares and assisting teaching.
This course may be taken in preparation for the Inter-
national Baccalaureate Film examination. Students will
have the option to take the IB SL Film examination in
one year or two years or the IB HL Film examination in
year two. UC/CSU (f)
Digital Photography (P)(CTE) Year
·
10 Credits
This course is designed to introduce students to the
graphic capabilities of the computer as a tool for artistic
expression. Students will learn how to use graphics soft-
ware (Photoshop and Illustrator) to manipulate images
from digital cameras, scanners, and the Internet. There
will be a focus on learning art fundamentals, composi-
tion, craft, and experimentation as they apply to visual
design. Students will explore how technology can be used
as a tool in the making of a wide variety of art forms, such
as digital collage, social justice posters, bookmaking,
portraiture, photojournalism, and animation. Students
will be expected to create a digital portfolio, participate in
critiques, and exhibit their work. UC/CSU (f)
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
visual & performing arts
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
80
visual & performing arts
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
81
Advanced Digital Photography
(P)(CTE) Year
·
10 Credits
Advanced Digital Photography is available to all BHS
students. In this class students will expand upon their
photographic and design skills. Each student will create
a digital and print portfolio of prints and work that high-
lights their knowledge of Adobe Photoshop, digital print-
ing techniques, and aesthetic choices. In addition to their
visual artwork, students will develop photographic essays
and responses on topics including photography and social
change, the role of media in society, and the connection
between art and social justice. Students will work pri-
marily with Adobe Photoshop. Students will work on a
year- long personal website that highlights their design
and photographic projects. Topics covered include self
portraiture/autobiography, poster-making, fundamentals
of photography, studio photography, printing techniques,
documentary, and self-directed topics. ROP Advanced
Digital Photography is a Career Technical Education
(CTE) class, in which students are being trained by a
professional photographer. The curriculum is focused on
giving students real world photographic skills, in addition
to helping expand their artistic ideas. Prerequisite: Stu-
dents must have a “C” or better in Intro to Digital, Begin-
ning Photography, or by showing a portfolio of work to
the teacher. UC/CSU (f)
Graphic Design (P)(CTE) Year
·
10 Credits
This course emphasizes the Principles of Design and the
integration of the Elements of Art. Students are intro-
duced to graphic design as a form of visual communica-
tion through the use of type, image, form, and color.
Students will develop various methods of graphic design
through spatial relationships, typography and imagery.
A rigorous framework of reading, writing and design
exercises enable each student to develop a foundation
of techniques and skills applied to assigned projects.
Projects include photo manipulation, digital photogra-
phy, vector art, typography, logo design, Web design,
and various print package materials. Adobe Photoshop,
Illustrator, InDesign, and Digital SLR cameras are used.
Students will keep design sketch books throughout
course. Students are required to critique their peers and
evaluate their own graphic designs and artwork. The
goal is to enable understanding and unique creative
problem solving manifested in each graphic design proj-
ect and presentation. UC/CSU (f)
Beginning Photography (P)(CTE) Year
·
10 Credits
This course is an introduction to black and white film
photography. Students learn the fundamentals of 35mm
cameras, taking pictures, processing film, and printing
pictures in the darkroom. Projects include portraiture,
documentary, landscape, still life, abstraction, and
manipulation as well as photo history. A 35mm film cam-
era is necessary. The school has some cameras to loan to
students with permission from a parent who agrees to
replace the camera if it is lost. UC/CSU (f)
Advanced Photography (P)(CTE) Year
·
10 Credits
This course is an advanced study of analog film photogra-
phy. Students are encouraged to develop a personal style
through technical and aesthetic choices. Students con-
tinue to practice advanced darkroom techniques, engage
in formal critiques, explore the history of photography,
and create exhibition quality images. The course intro-
duces alternative processes, studio lighting, medium for-
mat, and color photography. This course requires a high
degree of commitment to academic work. Prerequisite:
“C” or better in Beginning Photography. UC/CSU (f)
AP Studio Art: Photography
(H) (P) (CTE) Year
·
10 Credits
The Advanced Placement Photography course enables
highly motivated students to do college-level work in
photography while still in high school. AP Studio Art:
Photography is not based on a written examination.
Instead, candidates submit a portfolio of work for evalu-
ation to the AP Studio Art 2D Design exam at the end
of the school year that demonstrates their technical and
conceptual skills. Students must develop discipline, per-
sonal insight, critical judgment, and technical skill neces-
sary for the preparation of this portfolio. Students may
enter this course through an analog or digital pathway.
Prerequisite: “C” or better in Beginning and Advanced
Photography or Beginning Digital and Advanced Digital
Photography. UC/CSU (f)
Performing Arts Courses
Dramatic Arts/Acting
Workshop (P) Year
·
10 Credits
Dramatic Arts (Drama 1), introduces students to the
fundamentals of theatrical production. Students learn
the basic elements and vocabulary of the theater as well
as how to use these tools to create informal and formal
pieces of theater, from improvisations to short one-act
plays. In addition to performance, students grasp how
theater came to be and understand it in its cultural con-
text through field trips to professional productions and
class reading and writing projects. Students learn the
rudiments of how to gauge the aesthetic value of differ-
ent theatrical experiences as well as how principles of
theater can be used and applied to problem solving in
other contexts. Students learn that the organizational,
leadership, analytical, and time-management skills of
the theater can also be utilized in other disciplines and
professions. Dramatic Arts is designed to acquaint stu-
dents with various aspects of theatre: acting, costuming,
voice and speech, movement, lighting, directing, and
scene design. Primary stress is on the language skills of
listening and speaking through reading and interpreta-
tion of dramatic literature and evaluating performances.
Emphasis is on acting, scene study, and character devel-
opment. A secondary emphasis is placed on writing.
Students prepare in-class performances. UC/CSU (f)
Advanced Theater Projects
(Drama 2) Year
·
10 Credits
Students delve deeply into several theatrical disciplines
including mask-work, voice-technique, stage combat,
Movement Theater, Suzuki and Grotowski techniques,
and several styles of theater directing. Through two
major research projects, students explore deeply two dif-
ferent theatrical styles as represented in the major play-
wrights, directors, and plays they produced. Students
will also dive into applied theater, stie-specific theater,
and theater for social change. Students will explore the
works of Agosto Boal, Anna Devere Smith, and Moises
Kaufman, and will then create original works in col-
labortion with community partners. Prerequisite:
Dramatic Arts (Drama 1) and audition or by approval of
teacher. UC/CSU (f)
Production/Acting Semester
·
5 Credits
Students in this class are cast members of the play(s)
being performed by Performing Arts during the semester.
Students are also members of the production team, which
includes piblicity, box office, and dramaturgy. Enrollment
is determined after auditions, which are announced in the
student bulletin each semester. Students are not allowed
to enroll in this class until the play(s) have been cast and
production team applications approved. This is a seventh
period class. Prerequisite: By audition only.
Stagecraft Technical
Theatre 1/2 (CTE) Year
· 10 Credits
This Entertainment Technician course introduces and
develops students in four departments of entertainment
technician expertise; Rigging, Carpentry, Lighting and
Audio-Video. The course concentrates on fundamental
elements of expertise an entertainment technician must
have to succeed and thrive in the broad industry of
presenting Performing Arts in its many forms and will
foster connection to International Alliance of Theatrical
Stage Employees (IATSE Local 107). Opportunity for
Internships. Class meets on Tuesday & Thursday 7th
period with many many hours of evening and weekend
“practicum” hours required throughout the school year
supporting BHS performances. UC/CSU (g)
Stagecraft Technical
Theatre 3/4 (CTE) Year
· 10 Credits
The Entertainment Technician course further develops
students in four departments of entertainment technician
expertise; Rigging, Carpentry, Lighting and Audio-
Video. The course concentrates on fundamental elements
of expertise an entertainment technician must have to
succeed and thrive in the broad industry of presenting
Performing Arts in its many forms. Strong emphasis is
placed on safe working practices for all aspects of produc-
ing entertainment presentations. Coursework includes
classroom training on concepts and skills and practical
application in an entertainment production environment
of those skills to achieve confidence and mastery. Be able
to work as a contributing and responsive member of a
department team using appropriate and effective com-
munication to assist with known active work as well as
problem solve new challenges, understand protocols and
procedures for working in live performance both indi-
vidually and part of the production team. Opportunity
for Internships. Class meets on Tuesday & Thursday 7th
period with many many hours of evening and weekend
“practicum” hours required throughout the school year
supporting BHS performances. Prerequisite: Stagecraft
Technical Theater 1/2. UC/CSU (g)
Note: The following courses can earn credit in
either Performing Arts or Physical Education
Beginning Modern/Jazz Dance (P) Year
·
10 Credits
Everyone is welcome. This is a mixed level class, appropri-
ate for students with little to no dance training or experi-
enced dancers who are new to Modern & Jazz. This course
introduces the building blocks of Modern/Jazz technique,
including flexibility and strength training, turns, weight
shifts, floor work, and partnered movement. Daily prac-
tice includes technique, improvisation, and creative com-
position, in a collaborative, supportive environment. Stu-
dents perform in one formal dance concert each semester,
along with multiple informal studio performances
throughout the year. This course may be taken as PE or
Performing Arts credit. 9th–12th grade. UC/CSU (f)
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
visual & performing arts
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
82
visual & performing arts
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
83
Advanced Dance/Dance
Projects (P) Year
·
10 Credits
Also known as Advanced Dance Lab, this course builds
upon the skills developed in Beginning Modern/Jazz.
We focus on more challenging Modern/Jazz technique,
including faster tempos, longer compositions, inver-
sions, weight exchange, and Contact Improvisation.
Students are expected to have a comfortable knowl-
edge of choreographic elements. Dancers have multiple
performances throughout the year, including a formal
concert of student-directed choreography in the spring
semester, all of which is required. Guest Choreographers
and Master Classes enrich the curriculum throughout
the year. Course syllabus may include: improvisation as
performance, performance critique, field trips to live per-
formance, dance on film, and research projects. Students
are required to attend rehearsals outside of class time.
This course may be taken as PE or Performing Arts credit.
Prerequisite: 10th–12th grade and “A” or “B” in Begin-
ning Dance or teacher recommendation. UC/CSU (f)
Dance Production (H)(P) Year
·
10 Credits
Honors Option Available
The Berkeley High School Dance Production Class func-
tions as a pre-professional dance company. Advanced
dancers, with proficiency in Modern, Ballet, Jazz,
HipHop, and other dance styles are encouraged to audi-
tion. This class focuses on developing stage presence, fos-
tering creative expression, and discovering choreographic
voice. Students create and direct original choreography,
working with peers to see their artistic ideas from incep-
tion to fruition. Assignments are geared towards expand-
ing choreographic techniques and may include improvi-
sational performance scores, outdoor performance, and
interdisciplinary projects combining text, dance, and
music. Once a year, the class has the opportunity to be
directed by a professional guest choreographer. Danc-
ers create an electronic portfolio demonstrating artistic
growth throughout the year. Rehearsals outside of class
time are required. Dance Production performs twice
yearly, over several weekends, all of which are required.
At beginning of year, the teacher will describe require-
ments for the Honors Option, at which point student may
opt in. This course may be taken as PE or Performing Arts
credit. Prerequisite: This course is available to Juniors
and Seniors by audition only. Auditions are held the pre-
vious February. UC/CSU Honor’s Class option available.
This course fufills UC/CSU Visual and Performing
Arts (f) requirement.
Note: African American Studies courses which can
earn performing arts credit: (See course descriptions
under African American Studies department.)
African Diaspora Dance Year
·
10 Credits
Advanced African Diaspora Dance
Year
·
10 CreditsSee descriptions on page 72.
Music
Chorus (P) Year
·
10 Credits
This class emphasizes the fundamentals of vocal technique
and performances of a varied repertoire of choral music.
The class typically performs Broadway, rock, gospel, soul,
and art music. Students also have the opportunity to per-
form as soloists and in small groups. The chorus performs
in two concerts each year (one fall, one spring). Students do
not need to read music in order to enter the class; they will
learn to read as the class progresses. UC/CSU (f)
Digital Sound Engineering
(P)(CTE) Year
· 10 Credits
Sound Engineering is an introduction to basic MIDI (Musi-
cal Instrument Digital Interface) concepts and techniques.
Topics include keyboard programming, sound modules,
sequencing, and electronic music production. Students will
gain a foundational understanding of digital and analog
audio systems from an acoustical, electrical, and signal flow
perspective, balancing new state-of-the-art techniques with
an understanding of historical context. Students will learn
basic music theory (rhythm, melody, harmony), how to
identify different musical instruments based on acoustical
properties, and how to transcribe music. They will create
melodic and harmonic loops and record cover songs. Stu-
dents will also learn about the music industry in the U.S.
Course This knowledge will be reinforced with substantial
experiential project time, using professional equipment as
students attain the technical facility necessary for careers in
the digital media realm. There will be an emphasis on inte-
grated projects with the performing arts and the established
Digital Video pathways. UC/CSU (f)
Orchestra 1 (P) Year
·
10 Credits
In this entry level class, orchestral string players study and
perform string and full orchestra literature, developing the
craftsmanship and mastery necessary to mold music into a
creative expression. Prerequisite: Fundamental skill level
on orchestral string instruments. This class is designed for
9th grade string players who are not auditioning for Orches-
tra 3, or any students 10-12 grade string players who want
a non-auditioned orchestra class during the 1-6 period day.
UC/CSU Visual and Performing Arts (f) requirement.
Band 1 (P) Year
·
10 Credits
In this entry level class, wind, brass, and percussion play-
ers study and perform concert and pep band literature as
well as full orchestra literature, developing the craftsman-
ship and mastery necessary to mold music into a creative
expression. No audition required. Prerequisite: Fun-
damental skill level on wind, brass, or percussion instru-
ments. This class is designed for 9th grade wind, brass and
percussion players who are not auditioning for Band 3, or
any students 10-12 grade wind, brass and percussion players
who want a non-auditioned band class during the 1-6 period
day. UC/CSU Visual and Performing Arts (f) requirement.
Orchestra 2 (P) Year
·
10 Credits
In this intermediate level ensemble, orchestral string
players study and perform string orchestra, full orchestra
and chamber literature as appropriate, developing the
craftsmanship and mastery necessary to mold music into
a creative expression. Students are expected to practice a
minimum of 2 hours/week outside of class. Students in
this ensemble can expect to have opportunities to per-
form throughout the course, including competitive festi-
vals. Prerequisite: Intermediate skill level on orchestral
string instruments. This class is only available to 10-12
graders, or 9th graders who are *also* enrolled in another
music or performing arts class during the 1-6 period day.
9th grade musicians can enroll in Orchestra 1 with no
audition, or audition for Orchestra 3. UC/CSU Visual and
Performing Arts (f) requirement.
Band 2 (P) Year
·
10 Credits
In this intermediate level ensemble, wind, brass and per-
cussion players study and perform concert and pep band
literature as well as full orchestra and chamber literature
as appropriate, developing the craftsmanship and mastery
necessary to mold music into a creative expression. Stu-
dents are expected to practice a minimum of 2 hours/week
outside of class. Students in this ensemble can expect to
have opportunities to perform throughout the course,
including competitive festivals. Prerequisite: Intermedi-
ate skill level on wind, brass or percussion instruments.
This class is only available to 10-12 graders, or 9th graders
who are *also* enrolled in another music or performing arts
class during the 1-6 period day. 9th grade musicians can
enroll in Band 1 with no audition, or audition for Band 3.
UC/CSU Visual and Performing Arts (f) requirement.
Orchestra 3 (H)(P) Year
·
10 Credits
Honors Option Available
In this auditioned ensemble, upper level orchestral
string players study and perform orchestral and cham-
ber literature as appropriate, developing the crafts-
manship and mastery necessary to mold music into a
creative expression. Students are expected to practice
a minimum of 3.5 hours/week outside of class, and
will create electronic portfolios showing their growth
throughout the year through recorded performance and
written reflection. Students in this ensemble can expect
to have many opportunities to perform throughout the
course, including competitive festivals and a bi-annual
tour. At the beginning of the year, your teacher will
describe the honors option so that students can opt in.
Prerequisite: Audition and teacher consent. UC/CSU
Visual and Performing Arts (f) requirement. UC/CSU
Honor’s option available (f)
Band 3 (H)(P) Year
·
10 Credits
Honors Option Available
In this auditioned ensemble, upper level wind, brass and
percussion players study and perform concert and pep
band literature as well as orchestral and chamber litera-
ture as appropriate, developing the craftsmanship and
mastery necessary to mold music into a creative expres-
sion. Students are expected to practice a minimum of 3.5
hours/week outside of class, and will create electronic
portfolios showing their growth throughout the year
through recorded performance and written reflection.
Students in this ensemble can expect to have many oppor-
tunities to perform throughout the course, including
competitive festivals and a bi-annual tour. At the begin-
ning of the year, the teacher will describe the Honors
option, so that students may opt in. Prerequisite: Audi-
tion and teacher consent. This course fulfills UC/CSU
Visual and Performing Arts (f) requirement. UC/CSU
Honor’s option available (f)
Guitar (P) Year
·
10 Credits
Students will learn to be proficient-to-advanced guitar
players using a variety of genres (pop, rock, R&B, blues,
folk, etc.). Class structure is student-centered, cater-
ing to students’ individual interests, learning style, and
pace. Any level of experience (including no experience)
is welcome. Guitars are provided. UC/CSU (f)
Jazz Lab Band I (P) Year
·
10 Credits
This class focuses on developing skills necessary for
woodwind, brass, string, and rhythm section players to
play jazz with facility. Topics include jazz theory, history,
improvisation, sight reading of typical jazz rhythms,
creating compelling grooves, comping effectively, and
ensemble playing technique. Students are required to
participate in 3 concerts per year, and are expected to
practice a minimum of 2.5 hours/week. Prerequisites:
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
visual & performing arts
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
84
visual & performing arts
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
85
At least 7th grade level ability to read music and play
your instrument with good technique. This class is not
for beginners, but is a continuation of middle school
music classes. Admission is by audition, and if there is
additional space in the class, saxophone, trumpet, or
trombone players may gain admission by sending in a
recommendation from their middle school music teacher.
Audition materials are available at bhsjazz.org on April 15
of each year. Because this is a performing ensemble, class
size is limited to 2 each of piano/bass/vibes/guitar and
drums, 10 woodwinds/strings (saxes, clarinets, flutes, vio-
lins, violas), 7 trumpets, and 7 trombones. UC/CSU (f)
Jazz Lab Band II (P) Year
·
10 Credits
In this class we continue the work begun in Jazz Lab I,
focusing on more advanced jazz theory, improvising over
more complex harmonies, sight reading more complex
passages, creating more compelling grooves, and working
to perfect harder big band arrangements. This band per-
forms frequently—at least 4 concerts and 2 competitive
jazz festivals per year, all of which are required (calendar
handed out the first day of school). Students are expected
to practice a minimum of 3 hours/week. Prerequisites:
All students must read music and play their instruments
at a 10th grade level or higher. Although satisfactory
completion of Jazz Lab I is preferred, it is possible for
advanced students to audition into Lab II without taking
Lab I. Admission is by audition only. Audition materials
are available at bhsjazz.org on April 15. Instrumenta-
tion is limited to 2 each of rhythm section players (piano,
guitar, vibes, bass, drums), 5 trumpets, 4 trombones, and
up to 8 saxes. On rare occasions an advanced player on
a non-traditional big band instrument may be granted
admission by permission of the instructor. UC/CSU (f)
Jazz Ensemble (H)(P) Year
·
10 Credits
Honors Option Available
The Berkeley High School Jazz Ensemble is one of the top
high school jazz groups in the country. Advanced students
on traditional big band instruments are encouraged to
audition. The focus of the class is on increasing skill at jazz
improvisation, and performing advanced big band charts.
Skills addressed include jazz articulation and phrasing,
sight reading advanced charts, group blend and balance,
developing hard swinging grooves, comping effectively, and
creating exciting improvised solos over chord changes from
the Great American Songbook. Students are expected to
practice a minimum of 3.5 hours/week, and will create elec-
tronic portfolios showing their growth throughout the year.
This band performs frequently – at least 6 concerts and 3
competitive festivals yearly, all of which are required (cal-
endar handed out the first day of school). The band tours
internationally every other year, and fundraises actively. At
beginning of year, the teacher will describe requirements
for the Honors option, at which point students may opt in.
UC/CSU Visual and Performing Arts (f) requirement. UC/
CSU Honor’s option available. Prerequisites: Completion
of Jazz Lab I or II (on rare occasion this prerequisite may be
waived). Admission by audition only. Audition materials
are available at bhsjazz.org on April 15 of each year. Class
size is limited to one or two each of rhythm sections players
(piano, bass, drums, guitar and vibes), 5 trumpets, 5 trom-
bones, and 5 saxes. UC/CSU (f)
AP Music Theory (H)(P) Year
·
10 Credits
This is a college level music theory course covering both
written theory and ear training. This class will include the
following: music theory, composition, dictation, and sight
singing. This course is designed to prepare the high school
musician for the Advanced Placement exam in Music The-
ory. Prerequisites: Consent of teacher, working knowl-
edge of major and minor scales and circle of fifths, ability
to read music in at least two clefs. UC/CSU (f)
IB Music (SL)(HL)(H)(P) Year
·
10 Credits
IB Music seeks to personalize unique approaches to
musical forms, genres, and pieces in order to create life-
long connections between music, music-making, and
passions of students. Students will explore a variety of
musical backgrounds, personal and cultural, as they
embody three roles: the researcher, the creator, and the
performer. Students develop a portfolio with a range of
musical material to expand their own music-making.
The study of music will also include the application of
theory to practical work as students experiment with
music in different local and global contexts. Finally, stu-
dents will prepare finished pieces for a public audience
to showcase their evolving musical identity and level
of musicianship. HL students will extend their study
and development through the HL-only “contemporary
music maker” assessment, a project that entails taking
on all of the musical roles of the IB Music course. This
course is designed to prepare high school musicians for
the IB Diploma in Music. Students will be prepared to
take the IB SL Music exam after one year and the IB HL
Music exam after two years. Prerequisites: Consent of
teacher, ability to play at least one instrument (or sing)
and ability to read music, working knowledge of major
and minor scales and circle of fifths. UC/CSU (f)
World Language
World Language Course Progressions
9th 10th 11th 12th
Spanish I Spanish II Spanish III Spanish IV IB SL (H)
Spanish II Spanish III Spanish IV IB SL (H) Spanish Language (AP) IB HL (H)
Spanish III Spanish IV Spanish Language (AP) IB SL (H) Spanish Literature (AP) IB HL (H)
Spanish IV Spanish Language (AP) (H) Spanish Literature (AP) IB SL (H)
Span. for Native Speakers II Span. for Native Speakers III Spanish Language (AP) IB SL (H) Spanish Literature (AP) IB HL(H)
Latin IV (SL) IB HL (H)
Latin I French II Latin II French III Latin III (P) (AP) (H) French IV IB SL (H) French (AP) IB HL (H)
French I French II French III French IV IB SL (H)
Mandarin I Mandarin II Mandarin III Mandarin AP/IB SL (H)
The World Language Department strongly recommends that every student who intends to
continue language studies beyond high school finish a minimum of three years of a foreign
language while at BHS. Students reading significantly below grade level are advised to defer
beginning a world language until their sophomore year. Students who don’t receive a “C”
or better in a course at the end of the year repeat the entire year. They may only repeat a
language course once. Students may explore options outside of Berkeley High School.
All World Language courses fulfill UC/CSU Foreign Language (e) requirement.
World Language Placement
Students with little or no previous language experience
are placed into a level 1 (first year) class. Students with
previous experience are placed into the appropriate level
based on their transcripts.
BUSD students wishing to “skip” a level must take the
World Language Placement test, offered each spring.
See the BHS World Language web page for information
(https://bhs.berkeleyschools.net/departments-2/world-
languages/).
French I (P) Year
·
10 Credits
Students build communicative competence in the lan-
guage skills (listening, speaking, reading, and writing)
through contextualized vocabulary. Themes include
students’ likes and dislikes, daily schedules, after-school
activities, descriptions of family and friends, vacation
travel, eating out, and shopping for food, clothing, and
gifts. Students learn the present indicative, the passé
composé with avoir and être and reflexive verbs.
French II (P) Year
·
10 Credits
The structures introduced in first year French are pre-
requisite to second year French. Vocabulary continues to
be contextualized through themes and expressed both
orally and in writing. Reading comprehension develops
through longer readings. Students learn direct and indi-
rect object pronouns. The imperfect tense is introduced
and is contrasted with the passé composé. The future
and conditional tenses are also introduced.
Prerequisite: “C” or better in French 1 (P)
French III (P) Year
·
10 Credits
Students expand oral skills through presentations and
conversations. In addition, more intensive use of the target
language takes place and is expected during class time.
Written skills are honed through the production of more
extensive written work and supported by the study of inter-
mediate level grammar. A variety of longer and more com-
plex literary pieces are analyzed and discussed providing
students with a wider vocabulary and stronger interpretive
skills which are also meant to improve their productive
skills. Prerequisite: “C” or better in French 2 (P)
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
world language
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
86
world language
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
87
French IV (P),
IB French SL (H)(P) Year
·
10 Credits
During the fourth year, students review the main gram-
matical points studied in previous years, read several
full literary pieces and work around the IB themes
through a variety of activities. Throughout the year,
students work on refining their writing skills, improving
their verbal fluency, and gaining broader knowledge of
francophone cultures and literature. All students that
are not coming from French third year need to be tested
to enroll. 11th and 12th grade BIHS students will be able
to take the IB Standard Level (SL) exam at the end of the
year. Prerequisite: “C” or better in French III (P)
French Seminar (AP), IB French (SL),
IB French (HL)(H)(P) Year
·
10 Credits
This course focuses on advanced conversation, reading,
and writing. The course will include extensive read-
ings, frequent in-class discussions, and regular writing
assignments. Articles on current events will be read,
presented, and analyzed in this class, as well as repre-
sentative works of French literature, giving students the
ability to communicate effectively in both the everyday
situational settings and in more academic milieus. Writ-
ing assignments will be longer and more complex. Stu-
dents will be capable of taking the AP French Language
exam and the HL level IB exam the spring of their senior
year. Prerequisite: “C” or better in French IV (P)
Latin I (P) Year
·
10 Credits
First year Latin is an introduction to the basics of the
Latin language, including grammar, vocabulary, and lit-
erature. Students will also study the history and culture
of ancient Rome and the Mediterranean world, as well as
Latin-English derivatives. A primary goal is the success-
ful comprehension/translation of simple Latin stories
from a variety of sources, including the textbook Latin
For Americans. By the end of the first year, students will
be able to read, write, and speak simple coherent Latin
about a variety of topics. Students will be encouraged to
participate in the National Latin Exam, and Junior Clas-
sical League events.
Latin II (P) Year
·
10 Credits
Second year Latin is a continuation of the study of the
Latin language, including grammar, vocabulary, deriva-
tives, literature, and the culture of Rome and the ancient
Mediterranean world. In order to help students reinforce
and build upon their current knowledge of Latin, they
will read an increased quantity and variety of Latin
texts. The result will be an improvement in reading pro-
ficiency. Through extensive exposure to appropriately-
adapted Latin textbook readings, students will gain the
skills and confidence necessary to meet the demands
of third and fourth year Latin, including IB and AP.
Prerequisite: Successful completion of Latin I and/or
teacher’s permission.
Latin III (P) Fall/ Latin Spring,
IB Latin SL 1st year (H)(P) Year
·
10 Credits
The focus of the third year is to enable students to
understand, translate and evaluate various Latin
authors, including those represented in the AP and
IB exams. Students will navigate the transition from
adapted to unadapted classical Latin texts. Literary
genres include: history, myth, politics and personal
correspondence through letters. Authors include:
Petronius, Caesar, Cicero, Livy, Catullus, and Vergil
among others. Students will learn poetic meter and
figures of speech, and will continue to acquire Latin
vocabulary and grammatical structures necessary for
reading Classical Latin literature with comprehension
and enjoyment. Students will also write extended
essays in Latin on a variety of subjects. Prerequisite:
Successful completion of Latin II and/or teacher’s
permission.
AP Latin IV (H)(P),
IB Latin (HL) 2nd year (H)(P) Year
·
10 Credits
In the fourth year, students will continue the process of
becoming careful and perceptive readers of Latin. They
will read extended selections from Vergil, Caesar, Ovid,
and other authors represented in the AP and IB exams.
Also included: select topics in ancient history and culture.
Students will have the option of preparing for and tak-
ing either the AP or IB exams. Prerequisite: Successful
completion of Latin III and/or teacher’s permission.
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
Mandarin Chinese I (P) Year
·
10 Credits
The beginning level course emphasizes the development
of communication skills and awareness of cultural dif-
ferences through materials and activities. Emphasis is
placed on listening and speaking skills as well as the
initial development of reading and writing. Students are
expected to respond spontaneously and orally to simple,
real life conversational cues.
Mandarin Chinese II (P) Year
·
10 Credits
Mandarin 2 course reviews the grammar and vocabu-
lary of the introductory course. Students will demon-
strate their ability to express themselves using more
complex structures and increased vocabulary. Students
will continue the Chinese grammar and syntax studies.
Students will develop the concepts and skills to integrate
the Chinese language in many other disciplines such as
art, music, historical stories, etc. They will work toward
fluency through conversation, oral presentation, and
discussion. Students will continue cultural studies as an
integral part of the course. Prerequisite: “C” or better
in Mandarin 1 (P)
Mandarin Chinese III (P) Year
·
10 Credits
In this course, students will engage in conversation,
provide and obtain information, and exchange opinions
on various topics including current events. The course
will review grammar and vocabulary of the first two-
year courses. Students will demonstrate their ability to
express themselves in written and spoken Mandarin
using more complex structures and increased vocabu-
lary appropriate to the third year. They will work toward
oral fluency through conversation, oral presentation and
discussion. Students will continue cultural studies as an
integral part of the course. Prerequisite: “C” or better
in Mandarin 2 (P)
AP Chinese Language and Culture
(H)(P) Year
·
10 Credits
The AP Chinese Language and Culture course is designed
to be comparable to fourth semester (or the equivalent)
college/university courses in Mandarin Chinese. These col-
lege courses, which deepen students’ immersion into the
language and culture of the Chinese-speaking world, typi-
cally represent the point at which students complete ap-
proximately 250 hours of college-level classroom instruc-
tion. Course work provides students with opportunities to
perform Intermediate- to Advanced-level tasks, and stu-
dents are expected to achieve proficiencies throughout, and
sometimes beyond, the Intermediate range, as described
in the American Council on the Teaching of Foreign Lan-
guages (ACTFL) Proficiency Guidelines. The AP course
prepares students to demonstrate their level of Chinese
proficiency across the three communicative modes (Inter-
personal, Interpretive, and Presentational) and the five goal
areas (Communication, Cultures, Connections, Compari-
sons, and Communities) as outlined in the Standards for
Foreign Language Learning in the 21st Century. Its aim is
to provide students with ongoing and varied opportunities
to further develop their proficiencies across the full range
of language skills within a cultural frame of reference re-
flective of the richness of Chinese language and culture.
Prerequisite: “C” or better in Mandarin 3 (P)
IB Mandarin B (SL)(H)(P) Year
·
10 Credits
Mandarin B SL will enable students to learn the standard
form of Chinese Mandarin (officially named Hanyu in
mainland China) for communication in a range of situa-
tions and to receive exposure to the extensive history and
traditions/customs of the Chinese culture. Students will
acquire sufficient vocabulary and knowledge about the
structure of the language in order to read professional
texts with understanding, to comprehend conversational
Mandarin in formal and informal settings, and to con-
verse clearly in Mandarin. Students will be capable of
taking the SL level IB exam in the spring of their senior
year or in the spring of their junior year. Prerequisite:
“C” or better in Mandarin 3 (P)
Spanish I (P) Year
·
10 Credits
The beginning level course emphasizes the development
of communication skills and awareness of cultural dif-
ferences through materials and activities. Emphasis is
placed on listening and speaking skills as well as the
initial development of reading and writing. Students are
expected to respond orally to simple, real life conversa-
tional cues. No prior knowledge necessary.
Spanish II (P) Year
·
10 Credits
Spanish 2 builds on the grammar and vocabulary from
the introductory course. Students will demonstrate
their ability to express themselves using more complex
structures and increased vocabulary. They will work
towards proficiency in the three modes of communica-
tion: interpretive, interpersonal and presentational.
Prerequisite: “C” or better in Spanish I (P) or 2 years
with a passing grade in middle school or Spanish place-
ment exam.
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
world language
88
world language
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
89
Spanish III (P) Year
·
10 Credits
This course is taught primarily in Spanish. Students
continue to advance on the proficiency scale in the three
modes of communication: Presentational, Interpretive
and Interpersonal. Students are introduced to the prod-
ucts, practices and perspectives of the Spanish-speaking
world. Vocabulary and grammatical skills are expanded
enabling students to express their thoughts and opinions
on a variety of themes. Prerequisite: “C” or better in
Spanish 2 (P) or Spanish placement exam.
Spanish IV (P)(SL) Year
·
10 Credits
Cultural readings emphasize art, music and selected liter-
ary traditions of the Spanish-speaking world. Students
expand their skills in written, spoken and interpersonal
communication in Spanish through the study of authentic
short stories, cultural events and films. Creative expression
will be emphasized and difficult grammatical structures
will be reviewed as needed. Freshmen need permission
of department head. 11th and 12th grade BIHS students
will be able to take the IB Standard Level (SL) exam at
the end of the year. Prerequisite: “C” or better in Span-
ish 3 (P) (SL)
AP/IB Spanish Language and Culture
(SL/HL)(H)(P) Year
·
10 Credits
This class focuses on real-life Spanish skills, with a par-
ticular emphasis on those needed for the AP and the IB
exams. The class is conducted completely in Spanish.
Students are supported to develop their listening, speak-
ing, reading, and writing skills to express themselves
formally and informally in writing and orally in a range
of styles and registers using different techniques for
different audiences, as well as integration of academic
language. There is a heavy emphasis on reading com-
prehension especially of non-fiction texts as well as oral
production. Sample tests for IB and AP are practiced
regularly. All students who have not completed Spanish
4 or SNS 3 need to take the placement test in the spring.
11th and 12th grade BIHS students will be able to take
the IB Standard Level (SL) exam at the end of the year,
however, only 12th grade students can take the Higher
Level (HL) exam, per IB rules. Prerequisite: “C” or
better in Spanish 4 (P) or Spanish for Native Speakers 3
AP/IB Spanish Literature and Culture
(SL/HL)(H)(P) Year
·
10 Credits
Intended to be the equivalent of a third year college
introduction to Latin American and Peninsular Litera-
ture within its historic and artistic context. Prepares
students for the AP Spanish Literature and Culture Test
and for the IB HL & SL tests. Students need to be in
grades 11-12 or receive permission of department head.
11th and 12th grade BIHS students will be able to take
the IB Standard Level (SL) exam at the end of the year,
however, only 12th grade students can take the Higher
Level (HL) exam, per IB rules. Prerequisite: “C” or
better in Spanish 4 or AP/IB Spanish Language and Cul-
ture.
Spanish For Native Speakers 2 (P)
(Equivalent to Spanish 2) Year
·
10 Credits
This course is for Spanish-speaking students who pos-
sess a basic to low intermediate level of Spanish pro-
ficiency in reading and writing. The course is geared
toward providing the students literacy tools that support
academic Spanish. It is the goal of this course to set a
foundation that prepares and leads our students into
Advanced Placement Spanish courses. Although the
primary emphasis is reading and writing, the students
receive instruction and practice in speaking and listen-
ing in order to strengthen and refine these skills.
Spanish For Native Speakers 3 (P)
(Equivalent to Spanish 3) Year
·
10 Credits
This course is for Spanish-speaking students of all back-
grounds. Levels vary from intermediate to advanced.
Incoming 9th graders who wish to take this class must
take a placement test. The course is taught as a reading
and writing seminar in which the students debate cur-
rent political, socio-economic, and cultural issues. Stu-
dents learn to write essays, short-stories, poems; review
Spanish grammar and spelling rules; learn new vocabu-
lary; improve their public speaking skills through
presentations and dialogues; and familiarize with and
explore different aspects of Latin American cultures
by engaging in numerous artistic activities. Prerequi-
sites: “C” or better in Spanish for Native Speakers 2 (P)
or through placement testing in the spring.
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
Additional Elective Courses
AVID (P) Year
· 10 Credits
This course is designed to prepare students for the rig-
ors of college while providing support throughout the
high school years and as students complete the various
stages of their application process to four year colleges
and universities. Throughout the course, students will
develop necessary skills for success in high school as
well as develop note-taking skills, research their poten-
tial college major, prepare for the SAT, draft personal
statements, finalize their college list, research and apply
for scholarships, apply for financial aid by filling out the
FAFSA, and create a transition plan for college, which
includes budgeting, planning, and dealing with chal-
lenges/issues/stress. Prerequisite: Open to students in
grades 10–12. UC/CSU (g)
Law and Social Justice I (P)(CTE) Year
· 10 Credits
Analyzing, critiquing, and evaluating the criminal jus-
tice system, Law and Social Justice examines the best
practices and contemporary issues within law enforce-
ment, the courts, and prisons. A Career and Technical
Education course, class time also explores central and
peripheral careers within the criminal justice system.
Course work embraces work based learning, contextu-
alizing the issues and careers through field trips, guest
speakers, panels, and lecturers. Prerequisite: Must be
a junior, in good standing with other required course-
work, and complete application. UC/CSU (g)
Law and Social Justice II (P)(CTE) Year
· 10 Credits
Law II is a “senior seminar” level course, building on the
foundational work completed in Law I. The class inves-
tigates deeper into the important and relevant issues
facing the criminal justice system in the United States.
Using field work, class discussion, text analysis, and
research, students will explore the critical components
and solutions in policing and law, in addition to building
on career exploration in these areas. Topics for explora-
tion include racial profiling, adequate representation by
counsel in the courts, and inequities in prison sentencing.
Prerequisite: Law and Social Justice I. UC/CSU (g)
Latinx History (P) Year
· 10 Credits
Latinx History is a course designed to study the his-
tory and influence of Latinx upon the United States and
beyond. The history is traced from Pre-Columbian life
in the Americas to the present, covering more than 500
years of history. Some major themes and topics include
the complex Chicano-Latino identity, Manifest Destiny
and the Mexican American War, the history of the bor-
der and the displacement and resistance up until the
present. The course promotes critical thinking about
race, and other systems of difference that shape indi-
vidual and group interactions, American identity, and
culture. This course may be taken by students in grades
11–12 and meets the UC/CSU US History requirement
UC/CSU (a)
Latinx Literature Studies (P) Year
·
10 Credits
This course explores the stories and experiences of
Latinx people around the world with a focus on local
Latinx authors and storytellers. Students will read and
study various texts and genres such as poetry, short
stories, fiction, nonfiction, essays, drama, and film in
order to make meaning of the ways in which society,
politics, culture, and intersectionality shape and inform
our identities. Students also will learn the many ways
authors use texts as a mode of expression, art, and activ-
ism, and be challenged to use what they learn in order
to dive deeper into their own identity exploration. More
so, students will acquire a deep knowledge and under-
standing of the historical factors which have influenced
present-day Latinx communities, especially in the Bay
Area, and gain an appreciation for the many contribu-
tions Latinx writers, historians, and artist have made to
the world. Open to all Juniors and Seniors. UC/CSU (b)
Introduction to Journalism (P) Year
· 10 Credits
Introduction to Journalism is a year-long course that will
cover most of the major elements of professional journal-
ism. We’ll begin by looking at the role of journalism in
our society as well as its historical impact as well as the
basic principles of journalistic law and ethics. The course
will cover the mechanics of news writing, opinions and
reviews, sports journalism, photojournalism, podcasting,
design, and an introduction to the elements of broadcast
journalism. While this course is distinct from participa-
tion in the Jacket Newspaper (and involvement in both
can occur concurrently), completion of this course should
prepare you for a strong application to join/advance
within the Jacket staff. UC/CSU (g)
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
other elective courses
90
other elective courses
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
Leadership Study and Practice
The whole-school student leadership program at BHS car-
ries a strong tradition of spearheading service and social
opportunities for the entire student body, and the local
and global community. Traditional efforts include annual
Holiday Meal for the homeless, school dances, Spirit Week,
Week of Service, blood drives, the graduation ceremony,
leadership workshops, and student representation on vari-
ous decision-making bodies at the school and district level.
The program is currently undergoing an exciting reorga-
nization to meet prioritized needs and goals of the school
community and strengthen the leadership skills develop-
ment experience for students in the class. The view is that
the student leadership program is centrally positioned to
influence school culture, and as research supports, can
thus have a significant impact on school safety, achieve-
ment, and several other factors of student success.
Section A:
Executive leadership Semester
·
5 Credits
This course is required of all students elected or
appointed to the Exeutive Team of the executive branch
of the Associated Student Body. Students will study and
practice skills such as personal reflection, goal-setting,
collaboration, team management, service in multicul-
tural contexts local to international, political awareness,
constituency representation, ethics, non-violent social
change strategies, and communication from the subtle-
ties of body language to public speaking.
Study and practice will be dynamic. Students will create
products of self or group expression, carry out service
projects and civil activism, plan and execute events, crit-
ically analyze their personal and team development, and
be challenged to improve their abilities in communicat-
ing with various audiences. The aim of this course is to
help students realize their potential and responsibility to
life-long service and empower them to carry out leader-
ship roles effectively into the future.
Section B:
Representative leadership Semester
·
2.5 Credits
This course is required of all students elected or
appointed to office in the Student Senate of the legisla-
tive branch of the Associated Student Body. Study and
practice will focus on responsible constituency represen-
tation, coalition and consensus building, drafting and
presentation of statements to decision-making bodies,
organizing for civil activism, effective meeting strate-
gies, and parliamentary procedures.
Key to Abbreviations: UCOP–University of California Office of the President; “a-g” subjects: (a)–Social Science, (b)-English, (c)-Math, (d)-Lab Science, (e)-Foreign Language, (f)-Visual
and Performing Arts, (g)-Elective; (P) or (P-Pending)–UCOP has certified (P) or is considering certification (P-Pending) as fulfilling a requirement for admission; (CTE)–Career Technical
Education; (ROP)–Regional Occupational Program; (H)-UC certified honors course; (AP)–Advanced Placement; (IB)–International Baccalaureate.
91
Activities & Clubs
BHS has many clubs and organizations. They are a great way to make friends and get involved.
Check the Student Bulletin for more info or ask your counselor about clubs that interest you. If
you have an idea for a new club, find a faculty sponsor and create a new club. Get a club regis-
tration form from the Student Activities Director (D148), or call 644-8990. For more informa-
tion and documents, please visit the leadership web page: berkeleyschools.net/leadership
Examples of current BHS clubs:
10 Bay Birds
Alliance of Gender Expansive Stu-
dents (AGES)
Amnesty International
API Club (Asian Pacific Islander
Club)
Bay Area Volunteer Club
Beads for Good Deeds
Berkeley Badminton
Berkeley High Coup Ultimate Frisbee
Berkeley High Seido Karate Club
Berkeley Math Tutoring (BMT)
BHS Anime and Manga Club
BHS Film & Book Club
BHS Film Fest
BHS Healthy Minds
BHS Mock Trial
BHS Mountain Biking Club
BHS Orienteering Club
BHS Robotics Team
BHS Speech & Debate
BHS STEMinist
BHS Students Demand Action
BHS Tutoring & Outreach
BHS Zero Waste
Best Buddies
BIHS BIPOC Student Union
Black Honor Society
Black Student Union
Body Positivity Club
BHS Book Club
Bread for Community
California Scholarship Federation
(CSF) BHS chapter
Caring Community Club
Chess Club
The Climate Sleuth Education
Project
Committee for the Inclusion of AAPI
Curriculum
Critical Theory Club
Dietary Restrictions Club
Digital Art Club
Dragon Boating Appreciation Club
Drama Club
Dungeons & Dragons Club
FIDM Fashion Club
Film analysis club
Financial Empowerment
French Club
Girls & GNCs students Who Code
BHS Green Team
Habesha Heritage
H.E.R.O (Harm Education Reduction
Organization)
International Muffin Day Club
Key Club
Kiva Club
BHS K-Drama
Latinx Unidos
Lettuce Club
Mathletes
Math Mentors
Melanin Magic
Metal Club
Model United Nations
Multicultural Student Association
Music Lovers Club
Musical Theater Club
Muslim Student Association (MSA)
Activities & Clubs
National Honor Society - BHS
Chapter
Paw Club
Physics Club
Poetry Club
Power Through Voices (PTV)
Reading Buddies
Redwood Literary Magazine
Rising Writers
Sailing team
School Supply Support Club
BHS Ski and Snowboard Club
BHS Soccer Without Borders
Social Action Book Club
Stagecraft Club
Sunrise BHS
Surf and Beach Cleanup Club
Tea Club
The Red Cross Club
BHS Website Development Club
Women’s Student Union
Youth& Government
You can receive
academic credit for the
following activities:
Athletics, Concert Band, Con-
cert Chorale, Concert Orches-
tra, Jacket (BHS newspaper),
Jazz Lab Band, Jazz Ensemble,
Dance Production, Student
Government, Leadership, and
Yearbook.
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
92
School DirectoryPlease note that some positions and phone
numbers may change.
school directory
Berkeley High School
Main Office 644-6120
Fax 548-4221
Website http://bhs.berkeleyschools.net
Departments & Offices
Athletic Director (J207) 644-8723
athleticdirector@berkeley.net
How to contact a teacher or staff member:
1) Send an email
firstnamelastname@berkeley.net
(e.g., susansmith@berkeley.net)
2) Leave a note in a teacher’s mailbox
Mailboxes are across from reception in the D Building.
3) Call main number and follow instructions.
Attendance Office (D134)
A-GL 644-6341
Go-N or if you need Spanish assistance 644-6194
(O-Z) 644-6209
Berkeley Technology Academy (2701 MLK Jr. Way) 644-6159
Berkeley High Development Group 464-1181
College/Career Advisors (D221) 644-4583
CTE Office 644-6120
English Language Development (ELD) (C107) 644-6949
Health Center (H105) 644-6965
Independent Study (2701 MLK Jr. Way) 644-6159
Jacket Office (H102) 644-6856
Library (D226) 644-6857
Music Department 644-6052
Health Center (H105) 644-6859
On-Campus Intervention Director (C210) 644-8985
Parent Resource Center (D224) 644-8524
If you need Spanish assistance 644-4814
Physical Education 644-8888
Records Center, Work Permits (D173) 644-4577
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
R.I.S.E. (G111) 849-4898
Student Activities (D148) 644-8990
Technology Department 883-5201
Volunteer/Outreach 644-6120
BHSoutreach@berkeley.net
93
Notes
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
94
Notes
Notes
notes
Berkeley High School Course Catalog 2025–26
95
Allston Way
Visitor Entrance
H
Building
Health
Center
O C I
GATE 3 GATE 4
Florence Schwimley
Little Theatre
A Building
Berkeley Community
Theatre
Courtyard
Breezeway
Martin Luther King Jr. Way
G
Building
GATE 2
C Building
Campus
Green
F Building
Donahue Gym
Football
Field
Jacket Stadium
Athletic
Director-
2nd floor
J
Building
Box
Office
Basketball
Courts
Box
Office Admin
Offices
Library & College
Career Center -
2nd floor
D
Building
Leadership
Counseling
Cafeteria
Attendance
Jacket Gym
Lockers - 1st flr
Dance - 2nd flr
E
Building
Jacket Pool
GATE 5
M
Building
Gym
GATE 6
Softball
Field
Milvia Street
Bicycle Boulevard Bicycle Boulevard
GATE 1
Channing Way
Bicycle Boulevard
®
1 9 8 0 ( 5 1 0 ) Berkeley High School
A l l s t o n W a y , B e r k e l e y , 6 4 4 · 6 1 2 1 | f a x ( 5 1 0 ) C A 9 4 7 0 4
5 4 8 · 4 2 2 1
