AHA AP Government (AP)(H)(P) Semester · 5.0 Credits

Students are not required to take the AP test. AHA AP classes are taught at a
college level with the necessary supports for all students to succeed.
Students who choose to take the AP test will receive necessary support to
prepare for the exam. This one-semester course examines the historical
underpinnings and modern functions of United States government systems. Students
will explore government on local, state and national levels, dive deeply into
analysis of the U.S. constitution, and investigate ways in which they can
influence policy outcomes. The semester culminates in an interdisciplinary
project with students’ AHA AP Literature and Composition course in
collaboration with local artists. Students will further develop critical
thinking, analysis, complex reading strategies, and advocacy tactics. UC/CSU (a)

AHA AP Language & Composition (AP)(H)(P) Year · 10.0 Credits

All AHA Juniors take AP Language & Composition. Students are not required to
take the AP test. AHA AP classes are taught at a college level with the
necessary supports for all students to succeed. Students who choose to take
the AP test will receive necessary support to prepare for the exam. This
advanced placement class focuses on students analyzing and interpreting an
author’s use of rhetorical strategies and techniques , and applying them to
their own writting. This course is a blend of a traditional AP Language &
Composition class with a distinct AHA ethos and will include an
interdisciplinary compenent. UC/CSU (b)

AHA AP Literature and Composition (AP)(P) Semester · 5.0 Credits

Students are not required to take the AP test. AHA AP classes are taught at a
college level with necessary supports for all students to succeed. Students
who choose to take the AP test will receive supports to succeed. This is a
college-preparatory AP Literature & Composition class, designed to help students
master skills of literary and critical analysis and writing. Through this
course, students will be prepared for the AP Literature & Composition test if
they choose to take it, grow in their ability to analyze literature and media,
dramatically improve their writing ability, and gain the skills and stamina
needed to succeed in college-level humanities coursework. Skill Objectives and
Outcomes: Students will analyze various literary modes, including but not
limited to prose stories, plays, poetry, and film. Students will most closely
examine the literary strategies recommended by the College Board: character,
setting, structure, narration, and figurative language. UC/CSU (b)

AHA Advanced Creative Arts (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

The course of study will focus on line, perspective, shading techniques,
positive/negative space understandings, and composition. Students coming into the 
class without drawing experience will gain the skills needed to render
objects from what they see in reality. Students will also learn the reductive and
additive elements of sculpture and printmaking. Sculpture is three
dimensional art and printmaking is the process of making multiple copies of an image.
A common form of printmaking is screen printing t-shirts. Students in this
course will work with welding, screen-printing, plaster,
etching, clay and linoleum block prints, 3D printing,
laser cutting, and traditional drawing media.

AHA AP Studio Art (AP)(H)(P)(CTE) Year · 10.0 Credits

The Advanced Placement Studio Art program enables highly motivated students to
do college-level work in studio art while still in high school. AP Studio Art is
not based on a written examination: Instead, candidates submit a portfolio of
work for evaluation at the end of the school year. Students must develop
discipline, personal insight, critical judgment, and technical skill nec-
essary for the preparation of this portfolio. Students sign up for AP test in
May. Prerequisite: AHA Advanced Drawing and Painting. UC/CSU (f)

AHA Advanced Drawing and Painting (P)(CTE) Year · 10.0 Credits

This class thoroughly explores drawing and touches on painting and print-making
techniques. The focus is on improving drawing skills by making a connection
between what the eyes see and what the hand records on paper. Drawing is best
learned while translating the three dimensional to the two dimensional; for this
reason we will draw mostly from life and a little from photographs. Students
will work with form and content: both the drawing and the idea behind the
drawing will be emphasized. Using materials including graphite, paint, color
pencil, charcoal, etching and screen-printing, students develop visual
intelligence by gaining a thorough understanding of the principles and elements
of design. Work generated in this course will prepare students for Advanced
Placement Art in their senior year. UC/CSU (f)

AHA American Literature (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

American Literature examines the fiction, poetry, plays, radio, news, film, and
myth of American Culture. The class explores what is meant by “American”
stories, the mythology of America and of the American Dream as it is reflected
in our culture. Students write poetry, drama, literary analysis, persuasive, and
personal essays. UC/CSU (b)

AHA Chemistry (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

What non-toxic make-up effects can be used for actors? How can harmonics relate
to atom electronic structure? The answers to these questions lie in the study of
chemistry. This course focuses students on the world around them, equipping
them with a basic understanding of the chemical behavior of matter. Topics
include: atomicmolecular theory, weight relations, the mole concept, behavior
of gases, solutions, the structure of matter, equilibrium, acid-base theory,
oxidation-reduction reactions and chemical bonding. UC/CSU (d)

AHA Economics (P) Semester · 5.0 Credits

This one-semester course introduces students to basic economic theories and
principles as well as economic history and current economic issues. The course
covers a combination of macro and micro economics, statistical analysis,
personal economic planning, and entrepreneurship. Students apply these skills to
projects in which they pilot a product in collaboration with local entrepreneurs
and pitch a business plan to a panel of local business owners. The semester
culminates in an interdisciplinary project with students’ AHA AP Literature
and Composition course in collaboration with local artists. UC/CSU (g)

AHA Honors Anatomy and Physiology (H)(P) Year · 10.0 Credits

10th grade students fulfill their Biology Lab Science requirement with Honors
Human Anatomy and Physiology. This course focuses on the different systems of
the body including the cardiovascular, immune, skeletal and muscular systems
and how they have evolved and function together. It includes multiple
dissections, labs, and activities, while keeping the challenging and rigorous
curriculum accessible to 10th grade students. The human body is of high interest
to students and is very relevant to their lives - additionally, this class
strengthens their foundation for Chemistry in their 11th grade year. UC/CSU (d)

AHA U.S. History (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

This course is a critical analysis of the social, economic, military and
political policies and practices of the United States and the relationship
between these policies and historically marginalized cultures, namely black
people. We examine the past in order to understand the present and effect the
future. This course emphasizes omitted and distorted parts of American History.
UC/CSU (a)

AHA World History (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

This course examines world history through six major themes: civilizations,
religion, economics, imperialism, revolution, and war. 10th grade students
explore each of these topics through a series of case studies from around the
world. Each semester culminates in an interdisciplinary project that integrates
content and skills from World History, World Literature, and Anatomy and
Physiology through work with local artist and professionals. Students develop
critical thinking, reading, writing, research skills, performative expression,
reflection and communication skills to thrive in our increasingly complex world.
UC/CSU (a)

AHA World Literature (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

Humanities: English This class explores the relationship between stories and the
self: it asks students to examine short stories, novels, films, graphic novels,
visual art, dance, and the theater to understand how narrative builds our
identity and vice versa. Writings include literary and visual analyses, creative
fiction and artistic expression of academic understanding. This course also
includes interdisciplinary projects exploring real-world issues through visual
and performing arts, as well as the written word. UC/CSU (b)

AMPS AP Government (AP)(P)(H) Semester · 5.0 Credits

This one semester college level course provides instruction in both historic
and current functions of the United States government. AMPS students who take
this Advanced Placement course will learn how to think critically about how the
U.S. government operates while becoming informed and empowered citizens. In
addition, students will explore government on the local, state and federal
level, analyze the U.S. constitution and understand elections and how they
influence policy. Students are not required to take the AP test, but will be
given the necessary support to take it if they choose to. UC/CSU (a)

AMPS AP U.S. History (AP)(P)(H) Year · 10.0 Credits

AMPS AP U.S. History is a college level course where students use primary source
documents, oral histories, literature, art and historical texts to explore
United States history from colonization to today through multiple
perspectives. AMPS teachers will prepare students to take the national advanced
placement test in May. In addition, students will integrate the eras explored in
U.S. history with themes and works in American Literature. The course emphasizes
historical thinking, research and communication skills, developing original
interpretations of the past and making connections to the present. UC/CSU (a)

AMPS Chemistry (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

This course covers the basic understanding of the chemical behavior of matter.
Topics include atomic and molecular theory, solutions and equilibrium, periodic
properties, the behavior of gases, bonding and common reactions, acid-base
reactions, and oxidation-reduction reactions. Students are introduced to
stoichiometry, the mathematics behind chemistry. UC/CSU (d)

AMPS Economics (P) Semester · 5.0 Credits

In this one-semester course, students study how people organize themselves to
make a living, with an emphasis on how the capitalist system is organized and
how it is changing in this era of globalization. Students explore how American
capitalism addresses human needs, how events that affect the U.S. economy impact
people’s lives, and what ethical issues confront U.S. workers. They learn to use
graphing to predict the impact of world events on markets and on societies.
Through an integrated English/history project, students write a comprehensive,
analytical college-level research paper exploring the interplay of social and
economic structures in American society in an industry field of their choice.
UC/CSU (g)

AMPS Literacy, Advocacy and Public Service: Advanced English in Public Service Work (P)(H)(CTE) Year · 10.0 Credits

Through this upper division English Course, students hone their reading, writing,
speaking and presentation skills to become effective and empowered agents of
change as they explore the impact that the field of Public
Administration and Social Services has on their community, state and country.
Through close reading and analysis of informational and literary texts written for
a variety of purposes and audiences, students examine
instances when personal identity becomes political and
the way in which societal issues are influenced by and
can be addressed through public administration, social
service agencies and community organizations. Because
writing and communication are just as critical to effective
advocacy as research, synthesis and close reading,
students themselves compose text for real audiences and
authentic purposes from using a variety of digital media
to inform those for whom social services has direct and
indirect impact to making public arguments to effect
positive change. UC/CSU (b)

AMPS World History & Cultures (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

This year-long survey course studies the last 200 years of human history, with a
lens on health issues. Students are challenged to analyze the relationship of
historical events to current events and to trace the historic development of
modern problems, particularly those that affect human health. This course is
integrated thematically with World Literature so students get a rich analysis of
world history and cultures. This course emphasizes analytical skills through
expanding communication skills, such as speaking, writing, and listening in
small groups and in whole classroom settings. Students develop critical thinking
skills and the course culminates with an interdisciplinary project exploring a
historical event, emphasizing students’ research, writing and technology skills.
UC/CSU (a)

AMPS World Literature (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

This one-year course is designed for all sophomore students. The focus is on
novels, poetry, and plays from authors born outside the United States. Academy
teachers integrate the thematic units in World Literature with those in World
History to allow students to analyze literature in its historic and cultural
context. Students develop critical reading and writing skills, as well as
creative projects that emphasize world studies. UC/CSU (b)

AP Biology (AP)(H)(P) Year · 10.0 Credits

This Advanced Placement course is designed to be the equivalent of a college
introductory biology course taken by biology majors. This course differs from
Biology with respect to the textbook used, the range and depth of topics covered
and the time and effort required by students. Molecular, cellular and
evolutionary biology represent approximately 50% of the course material.
Organismic and population biology is studied from a molecular, cellular and
developmental viewpoint. Advice: Skill in algebraic reasoning is required for
success. Students must be able to recall basic facts and synthesize these into
major concepts and themes. Time spent in reading the text is about twice that
expected for Biology. Prerequisites: Grades 11-12; Completion of Physics 1 and
“C” or better in Chemistry. Students must attend an informational meeting in the
spring before the course. UC/CSU (d)

AP Calculus AB (AP)(H)(P) Year · 10.0 Credits

This course provides students with the equivalent of one semester of regular
college level calculus following the current AP syllabus and the opportunity to
take the AP exam for formal college credit (granted by most, but not all,
colleges and universities for a score of 3, 4, or 5). It is considered an Honors
course by the UC/CSU system. A graphing calculator is recommended. Prerequisite:
Grade 12 and completion of Math 3 with a grade of “C” or better. UC/CSU (c)

AP Calculus BC (AP)(H)(P) Year · 10.0 Credits

This course provides students with the equivalent of two plus semesters of
regular college level calculus following the current AP syllabus with additional
topics. This course moves at a very rapid pace, and students will have the
opportunity to take the AP exam for formal college credit (granted by most, but
not all, colleges and universities for a score of 3, 4, or 5). It is considered
an Honors course by the UC/CSU system. A graphing calculator is required.
Prerequisite: Grade 12 and completion of Advanced Math 3 with a grade of “B” or
better. UC/CSU (c)

AP Chemistry (AP)(H)(P) Year · 10.0 Credits

This course provides an opportunity for the more able students to pursue a
college level course. Emphasis is on chemistry as an intellectual activity and
on the rigorous training in fundamentals needed for future work in chemistry
or related fields. Topics covered include the structure of matter, reactions,
descriptive chemistry and chemical calculations. The laboratory will involve
individual observations of chemical substances and reactions, the recording and
interpretation of data, and the calculation of results based on the obtained
data. Students enrolling in this course should realize that it is a
college-level course and as such may require more study and preparation time
than required in a regular high school course. Prerequisites: Grades 10-12;
Strong interest in science, and a “C” or better in Math 1. Completion of Physics
1. Success in this class does not require any previous knowledge of chemistry
but does require good algebra, reading and problem-solving skills. UC/CSU (d)

AP Chinese Language and Culture (AP)(H)(P) Year · 10.0 Credits

The AP Chinese Language and Culture course is designed to be comparable to
fourth semester (or the equivalent) college/university courses in Mandarin
Chinese. These college courses, which deepen students’ immersion into the
language and culture of the Chinese-speaking world, typically represent the
point at which students complete approximately 250 hours of college-level
classroom instruction. Course work provides students with opportunities to
perform Intermediate to Advanced-level tasks, and students are expected to
achieve proficiencies throughout, and sometimes beyond, the Intermediate range,
as described in the American Council on the Teaching of Foreign Languages
(ACTFL) Proficiency Guidelines. The AP course prepares students to demonstrate
their level of Chinese proficiency across the three communicative modes (Inter-
personal, Interpretive, and Presentational) and the five goal areas
(Communication, Cultures, Connections, Comparisons, and Communities) as
outlined in the Standards for Foreign Language Learning in the 21st Century. Its
aim is to provide students with ongoing and varied opportunities to further
develop their proficiencies across the full range of language skills within a
cultural frame of reference reflective of the richness of Chinese language and
culture. Prerequisite: “C” or better in Mandarin 3. UC/CSU (e)

AP Computer Science A (AP)(H)(P)(CTE) Year · 10.0 Credits

This computer programming course introduces students to core topics in computer
science, such as problem solving strategies; designing programs; storing and
organizing data in a computer; and informal reasoning about how programs work.
The course will introduce students to the basics of the Java programming
language, and how it can be used to write programs relevant to data analysis,
natural language processing, art, and media (No prior, specific experience in
Java is necessary.)

This AP course uses Java in preparation for the Advanced Placement Computer
Science A Exam. The course introduces students to computer science with
fundamental topics that include problem solving, design strategies and
methodologies, organization of data (data structures), approaches to processing
data (algorithms), analysis of potential solutions, and touches on the ethical
and social implications of computing. The course emphasizes object-oriented
problem solving and design using the Java language. These techniques represent
proven approaches for developing solutions that can scale up from small, simple
problems to large, complex problems. Complex programming assignments give
students experience in more advanced programming methodology. This course may be
taken in preparation for the Advanced Placement Exam in Computer Science.
Prerequisites: previous programming experience or permission of instructor.
UC/CSU (c)

AP Computer Science Principles (AP)(H)(P)(CTE) Year · 10.0 Credits

Computing is dramatically changing our world, giving us new ways to interact
with each other and technology itself. However, using a computer is only a small
part of the picture. The real transformative and empowering experience comes
when one learns to program, to translate ideas to code. This Advanced Placement
course teaches students how to program using Snap! but it teaches more than just
how to program. This course provides an excellent opportunity to develop
understanding of skills relevant to a broad range of industries. The focus will
be on some of the “Big Ideas” of computing, such as abstraction, design,
recursion, concurrency, privacy concerns, simulations, and the limits of
computation. In addition the course will look at some of the beautiful
applications of computing that have changed the world, talk about the history of
computing, and discuss where it will go in the future. Part of the student’s AP
score will come from tasks completely of the students’ choosing, on topics most
interesting to them. The overarching theme is to expose students to the beauty
and joy of computing. Prerequisites: Grades 10-12 or permission of instructor.
UC/CSU (d)

AP Environmental Science (AP)(H)(P)(CTE) Year · 10.0 Credits

The equivalent of an introductory college course in environmental science, this
is a comprehensive, integrated exploration of biological, chemical and
physical aspects of ecological issues, principles and methods, including field
study. The interdisciplinary curriculum draws on interrelationships between the
natural and social sciences, and more global considerations, such as
environmental justice and ethics. Topics covered include ecosystem and biome
study, managing,restoring, and protecting ecosystems, energy efficiency and
renewable energy, global climate change and ozone loss, water and land
resources, and sustaining human societies. Prerequisites: Grades 11-12;
Completion of Physics 1, Chemistry/AP Chemistry, and Biology/AP Biology. Juniors
may only enroll if they are concurrently enrolled in Biology. UC/CSU (d)

AP Language & Composition (AP)(H)(P) Year · 10.0 Credits

Students will take a year long course of advanced placement composition that
focuses on students analyzing and interpreting an author’s use of rhetorical
strategies and techniques, and applying them to their own writing. Students also
demonstrate understanding and mastery of standard written English as well as
stylistic maturity in their own writing. Students write in a variety of genres
and contexts, both formal and informal, employing appropriate conventions. The
examination for the AP English Language and Composition course requires that
students recognize and employ a battery of literary strategies. Teachers work to
support all students to be successful in this rigorous course. UC/CSU (b)

AP Language Augmentation  Year · 10.0 Credits

This college-level writing course, offered during 7th period, is designed to
augment and integrate with AP Language & Composition. Juniors who wish to take
the AP Language & Composition test in May and/or further their writing and
analytical skills may enroll in this companion course. UC/CSU (b)

AP Latin IV (AP)(H)(P)(HL) Year · 10.0 Credits

In the fourth year, students will continue the process of becoming careful and
perceptive readers of Latin. They will read extended selections from Vergil,
Caesar, Ovid, and other authors represented in the AP and IB exams. Also
included: select topics in ancient history and culture. Students will have the
option of preparing for and taking either the AP or IB exams. Prerequisite:
Successful completion of Latin III and/or teacher’s permission. UC/CSU (e)

AP Literature & Composition (AP)(H)(P) Year · 10.0 Credits

This is an Advanced Placement (AP) course for seniors. The purpose of the AP
program is to offer college-level content to high school students, who can then
receive college credit by earning a sufficiently high score on the associated
exam. The AP English Literature and Composition exam tests how well students can
interpret and analyze fiction and poetry of recognized literary merit. But there
are many schools of thought as to what constitutes proper literary
interpretation and analysis. Accordingly, this class is the equivalent of a
college survey course on literary theory, in which students explore and
discuss not only a diverse selection of novels, short stories, and poems, but
also a wide variety of approaches to literature. UC/CSU (b)

AP Literature & Composition: Patterns in Black Literature (AP)(H)(P) Year · 10.0 Credits

This course is AP Literature and Composition offered through the African
American Studies Department. Accordingly, this class is the equivalent of a
college survey course on literary theory with a focus on Black literature.
Through the focus of modern Black writers and works, students will explore and
discuss a diverse selection of Black novels, short stories, and poems, as well
as a wide variety of approaches to literature (such as Afrofuturism). The course
will delve into and analyze the societal issues we currently face along with
solutions we can envision for them. This is an Advanced Placement (AP) course
for seniors and will prepare students for the AP Literature exam. Prerequisite:
Grade 12; Students must have taken at least one class in the African American
Studies Department either previously or concurrently to take this course. UC/CSU
(b)

AP Macroeconomics (AP)(H)(P) Semester · 5.0 Credits

AP Macroeconomics is a one-semester college-level class that introduces students
to the principles that apply to an economic system as a whole. The course places
particular emphasis on the study of national income and price-level
determination. It also develops students’ familiarity with economic performance
measures, the financial sector, stabilization policies, economic growth, and
international economics. Students learn to use graphs, charts, and data to
analyze, describe, and explain economic concepts. UC/CSU (g)

AP Music Theory (AP)(H)(P) Year · 10.0 Credits

This is a college level music theory course covering both written theory and ear
training. This class will include the following: music theory, composition,
dictation, and sight singing. This course is designed to prepare the high school
musician for the Advanced Placement exam in Music Theory. Prerequisites:
Consent of teacher, working knowledge of major and minor scales and circle of
fifths, ability to read music in at least two clefs. UC/CSU (f)

AP Physics 1 (AP)(H)(P) Year · 10.0 Credits

AP Physics 1 is an algebra-based, introductory collegelevel physics course.
Students cultivate their understanding of physics through inquiry-based
investigations as they explore these topics: kinematics; dynamics; circular
motion and gravitation; energy; momentum; simple harmonic motion; torque and
rotational motion; electric charge and electric force; DC circuits; and
mechanical waves and sound. Prerequisites: Grades 11-12; Prior or concurrent
enrollment in Math 3. Completion of Physics 1, Chemistry/AP Chemistry, and
Biology/AP/IB Biology. Juniors may only enroll if they are concurrently enrolled
in Biology. UC/CSU (d)

AP Physics C (AP)(H)(P) Year · 10.0 Credits

AP Physics C is a calculus-based, college-level physics course, especially
appropriate for students planning to specialize or major in physical science or
engineering. The course is divided into two sections - Mechanics and Electricity
& Magnetism. The Mechanics portion explores topics such as kinematics; Newton’s
laws of motion; work, energy and power; systems of particles and linear
momentum; circular motion and rotation; and oscillations and gravitation. The
Electricity and Magnetism portion explores topics such as electrostatics;
conductors, capacitors, and dielectrics; electric circuits; magnetic fields;
and electromagnetism. Introductory differential and integral calculus is used
throughout the course. Prerequisites: Grade 12; Concurrent enrollment in (or
prior completion of) AP/IB Calculus. Completion of Physics 1, Chemistry/AP
Chemistry, and Biology/AP Biology. Enrollment in AP Physics is a year-long
commitment and requires submission of test results for the corresponding AP
test. Students should attend an informational meeting in the spring before the
course. UC/CSU (d)

AP Statistics (AP)(H)(P) Year · 10.0 Credits

This course will give an overview of inferential statistics and probability:
correlation, regression analysis, applied normal curve approximation,
intersection, union, and dependence of two events, binomial distribution, condi-
tional probability and sampling. A graphing calculator is recommended.
Prerequisites: Grade 12 and completion of Math 3 with a grade of “C” or
better. UC/CSU (c)

AP Studio Art (AP)(H)(P)(CTE) Year · 10.0 Credits

The Advanced Placement Studio Art program enables highly motivated students to
do college-level work in studio art while still in high school. AP Studio Art is
not based on a written examination, instead, candidates submit a portfolio of
work for evaluation at the end of the school year. Students must develop
discipline, personal insight, critical judgment, and technical skill necessary
for the preparation of this portfolio. Prerequisite: Advanced Drawing and
Painting. UC/CSU (f)

AP Studio Art: Photography (AP)(H)(P)(CTE) Year · 10.0 Credits

The Advanced Placement Photography course enables highly motivated students to
do college-level work in photography while still in high school. AP Studio Art:
Photography is not based on a written examination. Instead, candidates submit a
portfolio of work for evaluation to the AP Studio Art 2D Design exam at the
end of the school year that demonstrates their technical and conceptual skills.
Students must develop discipline, personal insight, critical judgment, and
technical skill necessary for the preparation of this portfolio. Students may
enter this course through an analog or digital pathway. Prerequisite: “C” or
better in Beginning and Advanced Photography or Beginning Digital and Advanced
Digital Photography. UC/CSU (f)

AP U.S. History (AP)(H)(P) Year · 10.0 Credits

AP US History is a college-level study and analysis of American history from the
era of colonization to the present that will prepare students to take the
national advanced placement test in May. The course will focus on the themes and
topics outlined in the Grade Eleven California Social Science content standards
cited above. Students continue to build on the academic skills they have
developed in their freshmen and sophomore years and can take advantage of a
variety of support services available to help them succeed in AP. UC/CSU (a)

AP US Government & Politics (AP)(H)(P) Semester · 5.0 Credits

This one-semester class paired with Economics for the other semester provides
instruction in both historic and current processes and functions of the United
States government. The primary goal of the class is to prepare 12th grade
students to enter wider US society as informed and empowered citizens. As an AP
level course, the curriculum is aligned with College Board AP requirements, and
assessments are modeled on the AP US Government & Politics exam. Students
enrolled in this class, however, are NOT required to take the AP exam in the
spring. However, should they choose to do so, the course content is designed to
ensure they will be well prepared. This class satisfies graduation requirements
for government. UC/CSU (a)

AP/IB Spanish Language and Culture (AP)(SL)(HL)(H)(P) Year · 10.0 Credits

This class focuses on real-life Spanish skills, with a particular emphasis on
those needed for the AP and the IB exams. The class is conducted completely in
Spanish. Students are supported to develop their listening, speaking, reading,
and writing skills to express themselves formally and informally in writing and
orally in a range of styles and registers using different techniques for
different audiences, as well as integration of academic language. There is a
heavy emphasis on reading comprehension especially of non-fiction texts as
well as oral production. Sample tests for IB and AP are practiced regularly. All
students who have not completed Spanish 4 or SNS 3 need to take the placement
test in the spring. 11th and 12th grade BIHS students will be able to take the
IB Standard Level (SL) exam at the end of the year, however, only 12th grade
students can take the Higher Level (HL) exam, per IB rules. Prerequisite: “C” or
better in Spanish 4 or Spanish for Native Speakers 3. UC/CSU (e)

AP/IB Spanish Literature and Culture (AP)(SL)(HL)(H)(P) Year · 10.0 Credits

Intended to be the equivalent of a third year college introduction to Latin
American and Peninsular Literature within its historic and artistic context.
Prepares students for the AP Spanish Literature and Culture Test and for the IB
HL & SL tests. Students need to be in grades 11-12 or receive permission of
department head. 11th and 12th grade BIHS students will be able to take the IB
Standard Level (SL) exam at the end of the year, however, only 12th grade
students can take the Higher Level (HL) exam, per IB rules. Prerequisite: “C” or
better in Spanish 4 or AP/IB Spanish Language and Culture.

AVID (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

This course is designed to prepare students for the rigors of college while
providing support throughout the high school years and as students complete the
various stages of their application process to four year colleges and
universities. Throughout the course, students will develop necessary skills for
success in high school as well as develop note-taking skills, research their
potential college major, prepare for the SAT, draft personal statements,
finalize their college list, research and apply for scholarships, apply for
financial aid by filling out the FAFSA, and create a transition plan for
college, which includes budgeting, planning, and dealing with chal-
lenges/issues/stress. Prerequisite: Open to students in grades 10-12. UC/CSU (g)

Advanced Ceramics (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

This class continues with handbuilding and the Potter’s Wheel with an emphasis
on thinking more conceptually about the media. Students will build upon what
they know and learn advanced construction and surface design techniques.
Students will learn more about the chemistry of Ceramics including making slips,
glazes, and firing. In addition to constructing in clay, students will further
their understanding of Art History and Art History of Ceramics. There is an
emphasis on design, craft, process, and reflection in order to develop the work
and the idea within the work. All students will create a digital portfolio that
illustrates a personal voice within media and an exploration of the creative
process. Materials are provided. UC/CSU (f)

Advanced Dance/Dance Projects (P)(PE) Year · 10.0 Credits

Also known as Advanced Dance Lab, this course builds upon the skills developed
in Beginning Modern/Jazz. We focus on more challenging Modern/Jazz technique,
including faster tempos, longer compositions, inversions, weight exchange and
Contact Improvisation. Students are expected to have a comfortable knowledge
of choreographic elements. Dancers have multiple performances throughout the
year, including a formal concert of student-directed choreography in the spring
semester, all of which is required. Guest Choreographers and Master Classes
enrich the curriculum throughout the year. Course syllabus may include:
improvisation as performance, performance critique, field trips to live per-
formance, dance on film and research projects. Students are required to attend
rehearsals outside of class time. This course may be taken as PE or Performing
Arts credit. Prerequisite: Grades 10-12. “A” or “B” in Beginning Dance or
teacher recommendation. UC/CSU (f)

Advanced Digital Photography (P)(CTE) Year · 10.0 Credits

Advanced Digital Photography is available to all BHS students. In this class
students will expand upon their photographic and design skills. Each student
will create a digital and print portfolio of prints and work that highlights
their knowledge of Adobe Photoshop, digital printing techniques, and aesthetic
choices. In addition to their visual artwork, students will develop photographic
essays and responses on topics including photography and social change, the role
of media in society, and the connection between art and social justice. Students
will work primarily with Adobe Photoshop. Students will work on a year-long
personal website that highlights their design and photographic projects. Topics
covered include self portraiture/autobiography, poster-making, fundamentals of
photography, studio photography, printing techniques, documentary, and
self-directed topics. ROP Advanced Digital Photography is a Career Technical
Education (CTE) class, in which students are being trained by a professional
photographer. The curriculum is focused on giving students real world
photographic skills, in addition to helping expand their artistic ideas.
Prerequisite: Students must have a “C” or better in Intro to Digital, Begin-
ning Photography, or by showing a portfolio of work to the teacher. UC/CSU (f)

Advanced Drawing and Painting (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

This course is an in-depth exploration of drawing, painting, and design with
student-led projects as well as class projects. The development of each
student’s individual style is further accomplished through topics ranging from
abstraction to realism, along with varied problem-solving themes. Color will be
taught as well as advanced composition, varied subject matter, and an art
history component. There will be a range of drawing and painting media,
including acrylics. There will be mixed media and projects that include poetry
and creative writing. Students will have exhibitions, critiques, portfolio
building, and guest presenters. Students will keep up an active sketchbook.
Prerequisite: Satisfactory completion of Drawing. UC/CSU (f)

Advanced Math 1 (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

This is an accelerated, fast-paced course that rigorously covers all of the
material covered in Math 1 and part of Math 2, with additional topics,
challenging proofs, and open-ended problems. Students will also cover indirect
and direct proofs of both algebraic and geometric topics. Students will be
expected to explain the reasoning behind their solutions for open-ended
questions using formal, academic language. In addition, students will
demonstrate deep application of the Common Core Standards for Mathematical
Practice, such as reasoning abstractly and quantitatively, constructing viable
arguments, and critiquing the reasoning of others. The time commitment for
this course is most similar to that of an AP course. A graphing calculator is
required. This sequence prepares students for higher level math courses such as
AP Calculus BC, AP Statistics, and IB-HL Math. UC/CSU Honors credit is NOT
available for this course. Prerequisite: Placement in Advanced courses is based
on Advanced Math 1 Placement Test score. See page 6 for details on math
placement. UC/CSU (c)

Advanced Math 2 (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

This is an accelerated, fast paced course that rigorously covers the remaining
topics of Math 2 and much of Math 3, with additional topics, challenging proofs,
and open ended problems. Students will also cover indirect and direct proofs of
both algebraic and geometric topics. Students will be expected to explain the
reasoning behind their solutions for open-ended questions using formal, academic
language. In addition, students will demonstrate deep application of the Common
Core Standards for Mathematical Practice such as constructing viable arguments
and critiquing the reasoning of others, looking for and making use of
structure, and reasoning abstractly and quantitatively. The time commitment
for this course is most similar to that of an AP course. A graphing calculator
is recommended. This sequence prepares students for higher-level math courses
such as AP Calculus BC, AP Statistics, and IB-HL Math. UC/CSU Honors credit is
NOT available for this course. Prerequisite: Grade 10-12 and a grade of “B” or
better in Advanced Math 1 or see page 6 for details on math placement. UC/CSU
(c)

Advanced Math 3 (H)(P) Year · 10.0 Credits

This is an accelerated, fast paced course that completes the remaining material
of Math 3 with additional topics, challenging proofs, and open ended problems.
Specific topics include function analysis, trigonometric functions and graphs,
right triangle and wrapping functions trigonometry, laws of sines and cosines,
trigonometric identities, complex numbers, polar graphing, DeMoivre’s theorem,
2-D and 3-D vectors, conic sections, parametric equations, normal distributions,
and the Binomial Theorem. Students will be expected to explain the reasoning
behind their solutions for open-ended questions using formal, academic lan-
guage. In addition, students will demonstrate deep application of the Common
Core Standards for Mathematical Practice such as constructing viable arguments
and critiquing the reasoning of others, looking for and making use of
structure, and reasoning abstractly and quantitatively. The time commitment for
this course is most similar to that of an AP course. A graphing calculator is
recommended. This sequence prepares students for higher level math courses such
as AP Calculus BC, AP Statistics, and IB-HL Math. It is considered an Honors
course by the UC/CSU system. Prerequisite: Grade 11-12 and a grade of “B” or
better in Advanced Math 2. UC/CSU (c)

Advanced Photography (P)(CTE) Year · 10.0 Credits

This course is an advanced study of analog film photography. Students are
encouraged to develop a personal style through technical and aesthetic choices.
Students continue to practice advanced darkroom techniques, engage in formal
critiques, explore the history of photography, and create exhibition quality
images. The course introduces alternative processes, studio lighting, medium
format, and color photography. This course requires a high degree of
commitment to academic work. Prerequisite: “C” or better in Beginning
Photography. UC/CSU (f)

Advanced Robot Build (P)(CTE) Year · 10.0 Credits

Students taking this class participate on the BHS Robotics team and continue to
develop skills in one or more areas of interest from mechanical design/CAD,
machining/fabrication/assembly, electrical systems, programming, and or
business/media. This is an EXT-period course. Although there will be some
academic topics such as mechanics, electronics and programming, the course is
project-based and will require a significant amount of work outside of the
regular class period. The main focus is to design, manufacture, assemble, and
program one or more competition robots each semester. However, students
interested in team management or the business/media strand will focus on support
of the team through personable and logistical planning, business development
(fundraising, sponsorship, financial management, etc.) and team PR (press
releases, social media, website development, team apparel, etc.). More
information about the FIRST Robotics program can be found at
www.firstinspires.org/frc. Honors: This integrated course is designed to
support and facilitate thirdand fourth-year student’s leadership development.
Foundational knowledge from the prior two courses (Robot Build and Advanced
Robot Build) and from prior experience on a FIRST Robotics team by performing
advanced level work in the areas of engineering, manufacturing, programming, and
team project management. Honors students facilitate collaborative learning in
small teams and develop advanced personal skill in specialty areas while
allowing all students to be involved with all aspects of competitive team
projects. Students in this course will have the opportunity to lead, guide, and
mentor first- and second-year students on our FIRST Robotics team while
embracing a learning-by-doing approach. Prerequisites: Robot Build, Robotics
Engineering, Computer Science. UC/CSU (g) - college prep elective.

Advanced Robotics Engineering (CTE) Year · 10.0 Credits

This UC/CSU college preparatory science course follows the Robotics Engineering
course and allows students to further develop their understanding of the world
of robotics and engineering. They will learn advanced design, programming, and
embedded system skills such as advanced data structures, object oriented
programming, PCB design, computer-aided machining, open and closed loop
control systems, and machine learning/AI. Students will also explore
additional advanced hardware and software techniques. The course work is
centered around hands-on, inquiry based, cumulative projects in the laboratory
setting. The projects focus on the application of physics principles in a
variety of forms including rotational mechanics, electrical engineering,
computer science, and optics. Students will work individually and in teams to
build, design, and test complex robotic systems. At the end of the course,
students will complete a capstone project that combines many of these skills,
and will create and maintain a website to document their project. Honors: a
credit is open to 11th and 12th, meets concurrently but involves additional
academic tasks like written reports, research projects, and more complex chal-
lenges. Prerequisites: Robotics Engineering or Computer Science. UC/CSU (d) -
engineering science

Advanced Sound Production (CTE) Year · 10.0 Credits

Advanced Sound Production (Sound Engineering 2) builds upon and expands the
advanced use of recording and editing technologies to expose students to what it
takes to be an audio professional. While focusing on the aesthetic qualities of
sound production and analyzing the impact of digital audio technology as an
inherent form of communication in today’s society. Students will convey creative
expression and develop ideas individually and within groups. Students use many
of the concepts learned in the previous Sound Engineering course to experience
real-world, professional applications. Lessons and projects were created to have
students consider the wide-ranging opportunities within the audio field and the
skills needed to attain them. Students in this advanced audio production course
will gain “real world” experience as they support live productions and studio
recording. Advanced students will also explore their personal interests (mak-
ing music, scoring and foley work for film and video, sound design, etc.), while
being challenged to go beyond what they know and learn a host of skills they
might use as a professional audio engineer/producer. Prerequisite: Digital Sound
Engineering. UC/CSU (f)

Advanced Studio Editing (P)(CTE) Year · 10.0 Credits

In this class, students build upon the video production skills they acquired in
Art of Video Production as they shift to creating fictional narrative films. In
the class, students will sharpen their media literacy, refine their story-
telling skills, and learn industry standard screenwriting protocols. Using
professional-grade equipment, students complete a series of skills-building
short films, and then several narrative filmmaking projects over the course of
the year in a variety of genres. Students refine their production process in
each stage of video production. In pre-production, they conduct research into
inspiration, develop story ideas, scripts and detailed production plans.
During production, students will use a range of professional equipment to record
their shots. In post-production, students will develop skills in Premier Pro
and the Adobe Suite as well as further their understanding of editing styles
including montage, use of parallel editing, and nonlinear storytelling
structures. As part of Berkeley High’s school-wide focus on literacy, students
complete regular writing assignments including production proposals and plans,
statements of artistic intention, and film critiques. Guest speakers and field
trips facilitate students’ career exploration, as do projects proposed to the
class by community members. Close study of feature films contribute to students’
media literacy and inspire their work. Prerequisites: Satisfactory completion
of Art of Video Production or an equivalent course or by permission of the
teacher. This course is open to students from all learning communities. UC/CSU
(f)

Advanced Studio/Editing (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

In this class, students build upon the video production skills they acquired in
Art of Video Production, sharpen their media literacy and refine their
storytelling skills. In addition, they will learn the art and craft of
production design from pre-production through post-production and they will
receive practical, technical, and aesthetic guidance. Using professional-grade
equipment, students complete several exercises and at least two projects over
the course of the year in a variety of genres. In addition, students provide
video services to the school and the community through three Community Service
Projects (CSP). As part of Berkeley High’s school-wide focus on literacy,
students complete regular writing assignments like project proposals,
treatments, Beat Sheets, and scripts, Producers Statements, process logs and
reflections, and movie critiques. Guest speakers and field trips facilitate
students’ career exploration, as do projects proposed to the class by community
members. Close study of shorts and feature length films contribute to students’
media literacy and inspire their work as filmmakers. Prerequisites: Successful
completion of Art of Video Production or an equivalent course or by permission
of the teacher. This course is open to students from all learning communities.
UC/CSU (f)

Advanced Theater Projects  Year · 10.0 Credits

Students delve deeply into several theatrical disciplines including mask-work,
voice-technique, stage combat, Movement Theater, Suzuki and Grotowski
techniques, and several styles of theater directing. Through two major research
projects, students explore deeply two different theatrical styles as
represented in the major playwrights, directors, and plays they produced.
Students will also dive into applied theater, stie-specific theater, and theater
for social change. Students will explore the works of Agosto Boal, Anna Devere
Smith, and Moises Kaufman, and will then create original works in collabortion
with community partners. Prerequisite: Dramatic Arts (Drama 1) and audition or
by approval of teacher. UC/CSU (f)

African American Economics (P) Semester · 5.0 Credits

This dynamic course is designed, first of all, to familiarize students with
the concepts and terminology of basic economics that they may encounter in life
or on any objective test. Secondly, the course acquaints students with the
relation of the African American community to the American economy as a whole.
Finally, the instructor examines the role that African Americans have played
in the establishment of the American economy. Assignments are geared toward
providing students with hands-on experiences of basic economic survival in the
cities of modern America. Assignments focus upon basic financial planning,
credit trap avoidance, real estate and car purchases, entrepreneurship and
meeting the needs of providing food, shelter and clothing for one’s family in
the 21st century. This course satisfies economics requirement for graduation.
UC/CSU (g)

African American History 1/2 (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

This course is designed to study the influence of African upon America and the
world. The saga of the African American is traced from his African origins in
Ethiopia and Egypt through slavery in America to the Civil War, and up to the
“Harlem Renaissance.” The second semester of this course will examine the
accomplishments of African Americans from the end of the “Harlem Renaissance”
period through the tumultuous Civil Rights era, and the Black consciousness
movement to the present. This course may be taken by students in grades 11 and
12 and meets the UC/CSU US History requirement. UC/CSU (a)

African American Literature (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

This college preparatory course offers students an immersive journey into the
rich and vibrant world of Black Literature. Students will engage with various
narratives, including novels, short stories, speeches, essays, films, and
poetry, crafted by authors and artists from the African Diaspora and the
Afro-Latino world. Through these works, students will develop a deeper under-
standing of self-identity, cultural perspectives, and the interconnectedness of
global experiences. Class discussions and collaborative work will form the
foundation of our learning environment, encouraging students to exchange ideas,
challenge perspectives, and grow as critical thinkers. Students in 11th and
12th grade may take this course for English credit. UC/CSU (b)

African Diaspora Advanced Dance (P)(PE) Year · 10.0 Credits

This is the most intense level of African Dance. Students delve into folklore
and mythology as manifested in ceremonies and rhythmic movements. The
interrelations of music, dance and dance/drama are explored. Students, by
choreographing a piece to be performed on stage, are able to make comparative
analysis of the varied dance forms and how one has influenced the other. For the
advanced student, this course provides an opportunity to accurately depict and
perpetuate African and African-derived folklore and other dance forms in per-
formances on stage; to better acquaint the community with Africa’s past,
present, and future. Prerequisites: Grades 11-12. “C” or better
in Beginning/Intermediate African Diaspora Dance, and teacher approval. UC/CSU
(f) or (PE credit)

African Diaspora Beginning Dance (P)(PE) Year · 10.0 Credits

As one of the courses of the African American Studies Program, the objective
of this course is to present means by which one can understand African and
African-derived cultures through direct experience in the education of music and
dance and its relationship to and influence on contemporary dance. While provid-
ing historical structure, technique, and discipline, students are exposed to a
wide variety of dance styles and are provided with an alternative learning
atmosphere, which is beneficial physically, mentally and spiritually. 9th
through 12th grade. This course is offered subject to enrollment. UC/CSU (f) or
(PE credit)

American Government (P) Spring · 5.0 Credits

This course focuses on the nature of government, working towards understanding
how various contemporary political systems work. Focus is on current issues as
Congress, the presidency, state legislature, and the judicial system address
them. With a hands-on approach, students will prepare arguments, debate social
and political issues, investigate current events, and simulate various elements
of government. UC/CSU (a)

American Literature (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

This course examines American literature through close examination of essays.
Students also view and analyze literature through various critical lenses.
Students will continue to develop their critical reading and analytic skills.
Writing in the course focuses on literary analysis and the development of
arguments on and analysis of texts. Students will also continue to explore
rhetorical strategies. Course materials include writing from a diverse group of
authors. UC/CSU (b)

Art of Video Production (P)(CTE) Year · 10.0 Credits

In this class, students become media literate by producing five-to-six video
projects over the course of the year. Each project builds upon the previous ones
in terms of skills and storytelling techniques. Camera operation, shot com-
position, audio recording and computer-based editing are emphasized. All
completed projects are screened for—and critiqued by—the class and students are
required to submit their finished pieces to Berkeley High’s film festival and to
external festivals. Note: Students who successfully complete Art of Video
Production in 9th grade can either retake the course and receive credit for
Advanced Studio Editing on their transcript OR take any other class at BHS that
fits with their schedule. As part of Berkeley High’s school-wide focus on
literacy, students complete regular writing assignments like project proposals,
producers statements and movie reviews. In addition to the video projects,
students begin developing the skills needed for careers in video; each semester,
they complete two Community Service Projects (CSP’s) in which they provide
video recording services for Berkeley High and the community. Close study of
feature and documentary films contribute to students’ media literacy and inspire
their work as producers. Prerequisites: None. UC/CSU (f)

Asian American and Pacific Islander Literature (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

This course explores contemporary Asian and Pacific Islander American issues
through the works of APIA authors, poets, essayists, cultural critics and
filmmakers. We will investigate topics such as: APIA representation in the
media, how imperialism has complicated identities, and where APIAs fall in the
Black-White binary. Students will be exposed to a range of perspectives from
various historical contexts, which will ground their understanding of what it
means to be APIA today. Prerequisite: Grades 11-12. UC/CSU
(b)

BEST-English (P) Fall · 5.0 Credits

Students in this course select an individualized internship and spend one day
a week interning for periods 4-6. Students reflect on this experience and share
learning with classmates. This course also provides extensive support for
career development, life after high school, and the college process: the search,
application, decision-making, and financial aid. Berkeley Experiential Senior
Transition (BEST) students receive one semester of high school social studies
credit and one semester of high school English credit. UC/CSU (g)

BEST-History (P) Spring · 5.0 Credits

Students in this course select an individualized internship and spend one day
a week interning for periods 4-6. Students reflect on this experience and share
learning with classmates. This course also provides extensive support for
career development, life after high school, and the college process: the search,
application, decision-making, and financial aid. Berkeley Experiential Senior
Transition (BEST) students receive one semester of high school social studies
credit and one semester of high school English credit. UC/CSU (g)

BIHS Economics (P) Semester · 5.0 Credits

Sophomore Economics provides students with an introduction to many of the
basic concepts and functions of economics. The primary goals of this course are
to foster basic economic literacy and thinking skills that will enable students
to think critically and to make more informed personal and public decisions.
Students will learn how to look at the world through an economic lens and to use
that lens to come up with solutions to problems affecting the world around us
through several ‘real world’ projects. This class also helps provide students
with a very strong foundation of economic knowledge and understanding should
they choose to pursue more advanced economics courses in the future. UC/CSU (g)

BIHS Global Literature (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

Global Literature focuses on how texts shape our understanding of global
issues. Students learn the conventions of different text types: stories, film,
comics, novels, memoirs, song lyrics, and poetry. They also read options and
articles to contextualize the global issues in each unit. Students read, write
and talk about the impact of time and place on a text and a reader’s
interpretation. Not only do they learn to write literary arguments, but they
also create original work. In this class, students learn to think like writers.
They reflect on the writing process, revise their work, and learn strategies to
communicate their ideas with clarity. UC/CSU (b)

Badminton (PE) Year · 10.0 Credits

This course covers the skills and strategy of badminton. Students will
participate in singles and doubles tournaments.

Band 1 (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

In this entry level class, wind, brass, and percussion players study and perform
concert and pep band literature as well as full orchestra literature, developing
the craftsmanship and mastery necessary to mold music into a creative
expression. No audition required. Prerequisite: Fundamental skill level on wind,
brass, or percussion instruments. This class is designed for 9th grade wind,
brass and percussion players who are not auditioning for Band 3, or any students
10-12 grade wind, brass and percussion players who want a non-auditioned band
class during the 1-6 period day. UC/CSU (f) - Visual and Performing Arts

Band 2 (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

In this intermediate level ensemble, wind, brass and percussion players study
and perform concert and pep band literature as well as full orchestra and
chamber literature as appropriate, developing the craftsmanship and mastery
necessary to mold music into a creative expression. Students are expected to
practice a minimum of 2 hours/week outside of class. Students in this ensemble
can expect to have opportunities to perform throughout the course, including
competitive festivals. Prerequisite: Intermediate skill level on wind, brass
or percussion instruments. This class is only available to 10-12 graders, or 9th
graders who are *also* enrolled in another music or performing arts class during
the 1-6 period day. 9th grade musicians can enroll in Band 1 with no audition,
or audition for Band 3. UC/CSU (f) - Visual and Performing Arts

Band 3 (H)(P) Year · 10.0 Credits

In this auditioned ensemble, upper level wind, brass and percussion players
study and perform concert and pep band literature as well as orchestral and
chamber literature as appropriate, developing the craftsmanship and mastery
necessary to mold music into a creative expression. Students are expected to
practice a minimum of 3.5 hours/week outside of class, and will create
electronic portfolios showing their growth throughout the year through recorded
performance and written reflection. Students in this ensemble can expect to have
many opportunities to perform throughout the course, including competitive
festivals and a bi-annual tour. At the beginning of the year, the teacher will
describe the Honors option, so that students may opt in. Prerequisite: Audi-
tion and teacher consent. This course fulfills UC/CSU (f) - Visual and
Performing Arts UC/CSU Honor’s option available

Basketball (PE) Year · 10.0 Credits

This class will be learning, playing, and improving in all aspects of
basketball. We will be working on competitive team building through tournament
play. This class does not require basketball acumen, but does require a passion
for the game.

Beginning Modern/Jazz Dance (P)(PE) Year · 10.0 Credits

Everyone is welcome. This is a mixed level class, appropriate for students
with little to no dance training, along with experienced dancers who are new to
Modern & Jazz. This course introduces the building blocks of Modern/Jazz
technique, including flexibility and strength training, turns, weight shifts,
floor work, and partnered movement. Daily practice includes technique,
improvisation and creative composition, in a collaborative, supportive
environment. Students perform in one formal dance concert each semester, along
with multiple informal studio performances throughout the year. This course may
be taken as PE or Performing Arts credit. 9th-12th grade. UC/CSU (f)

Beginning Photography (P)(CTE) Year · 10.0 Credits

This course is an introduction to black and white film photography. Students
learn the fundamentals of 35mm cameras, taking pictures, processing film, and
printing pictures in the darkroom. Projects include portraiture, documentary,
landscape, still life, abstraction, and manipulation as well as photo history. A
35mm film camera is necessary. The school has some cameras to loan to students
with permission from a parent who agrees to replace the camera if it is lost.
UC/CSU (f)

Biological Health Sciences (P)(CTE) Year · 10.0 Credits

This biology lab science course combines human physiology with the basic
concepts and principles of biology. The content of the course focuses primarily
on the physiological, biological, and structural details of the human body
including a study of the body systems. This course combines scientific study
with practical applications of health science. This course is taught using
lecture and laboratory exercises including dissections. A variety of resources
(Internet, medical journals and medical professionals) will be accessed for
the purpose of creating written and oral presentations that demonstrate stu-
dents’ knowledge and application of scientific principles. Upon successful
completion of the course, students will be eligible to receive an American Heart
Association Pulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) certificate. UC/CSU (d)

Biology (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

This course is a junior and senior level laboratory course that covers concepts
of biology based on the Next Generation Science Standards. Topics include the
origin of life, unity and diversity of life, bio-energetics (cell respiration,
photosynthesis, enzyme functions) genetics, evolution, anatomy and physiology,
ecology and global climate change. Emphasis is placed on understanding science
and its role in society. Prerequisites: Grades 11-12; Completion of Physics 1
and Chemistry. UC/CSU (d)

Biotechnology 1/2 (P)(CTE) Year · 10.0 Credits

The course centers around the following areas: laboratory measurement and
calculation, energetics of life, growth and reproduction, structural basis of
function in living systems, chemistry of living systems, quantitative problem
solving and data acquisition and display. Issues of career development, ethics
and technology will also be stressed. Priority will be given to Juniors who are
concurrently enrolled in Chemistry or Biology. All students must have earned a
“C” average in college preparatory math. UC/CSU (d)

Biotechnology 3/4 (P)(CTE) Year · 10.0 Credits

This course covers chemistry and biochemistry concepts related to biotechnology,
genetics, DNA transformations, protein purification techniques, cell growth and
monitoring techniques, immunology and other aspects of biotechnology.
Prerequisites: Grade 12; Biotech 1/2 is required. UC/CSU (d)

Black Psychology and Sociology & Anthropology (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

This two part elective course will examine current research on the diverse
experiences, behavior, and identities of African Americans. The course will be
taught in a seminar format and students will be engaged in the discussions and
analysis of various topics, including those from theoretical African American
Literature. This course helps students to consider the social construction of
ethnicity and race, as well as the values, assumptions, and biases we hold
regarding race, ethnicity, and related issues. Students will also be exposed
to the social inequities related to race and ethnicity and the interaction of
such inequities with other reference group identities such as SES, gender,
religion and spirituality, sexuality, and age. UC/CSU (g)

CAD Design Studio (CTE) Year · 10.0 Credits

In this course, students will become familiar with all aspects of the design
process from drawing, 3D modeling and CAD drafting through advanced
manufacturing techniques such as 3D printing and CNC machining. Using the
Design Thinking process, students will learn to think like a designer as they
develop innovative solutions to real world problems. This class will encourage
the use of design software to generate ideas and proposals, as well as
fabrication tools to realize those ideas in three dimensions. Students will
learn to safely and confidently use hand and power tools to cut, fasten and
assemble different materials as they make functional objects and structures.
Students will toggle between the architectural scale, the product design scale
and the furniture scale through individual and group projects as they build
their individual tool kit and explore their creativity. Priority enrollments for
11th and 12th grade. No prerequisite. UC/CSU (g)

CAS - Computer Art (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

This course is designed to introduce students to the graphic capabilities of the
computer as a tool for artistic expression. Students will learn how to use
graphics software to manipulate images from digital cameras, scanners and the
Internet. There will be a focus on learning art fundamentals and composition
as they apply to visual design. Students will explore how technology can be used
as a tool for communication and expression. Students will be expected to
create a digital portfolio, participate in critiques and exhibit their work.
UC/CSU (f)

CAS AP Language & Composition (AP)(H)(P) Year · 10.0 Credits

This course focuses on rhetoric, argument, and synthesizing research. AP Lang
centers on the analysis of nonfiction texts. By the end of the year, CAS juniors
will understand how to close-read, annotate, and rhetorically analyze texts
(both written and visual); craft an argument; deliver a formal speech; and hone
their public speaking and presentation skills. UC/CSU (b)

CAS AP Literature & Composition (AP)(H)(P) Year · 10.0 Credits

This class forms part of the CAS Senior Seminar, providing support for each
student as they complete college applications, the service learning project,
and the Senior Thesis. It also follows the College Board’s vision of the course
as a whole: AP Literature and Composition is an introductory college-level
course that engages students in the careful reading and critical analysis of
imaginative literature. Through their close reading of selected texts, students
deepen their understanding of the ways writers use language to provide both
meaning and pleasure for their readers. As they read, students consider a
work’s structure, style, and themes, as well as smaller-scale elements such as
the use of figurative language, imagery, symbolism, and tone.” UC/CSU (b)

CAS AP U.S. History (AP)(P) Year · 10.0 Credits

What does it mean to be an American? What principles, hopes and ideals are
included in “the American dream?” What does this dream promise, and to what
extent have these promises been fulfilled? Has American history been a history
of progress? How successful have marginalized groups been in their struggles to
gain full membership in our society? In this course, students explore these and
other essential questions in a study of the major turning points in 20th century
American history, with an emphasis on the social, cultural, political and
economic developments that have challenged America to broaden its founding
definitions of freedom and equality. Students will develop a complex
understanding of the major ideas and events that have shaped the United States
in the last one hundred years and will learn how knowledge of the past can
illuminate possible answers to the issues and problems which confront our
country today. With the use of broad, open-ended and often provocative central
questions to tie together the many diverse activities of each unit, students
will see how knowledge builds and grows towards tentative conclusions. They will
consider multiple perspectives on events and issues as they develop skills of
historical research and interpretation; they should also be able to identify
with the experiences of people from different backgrounds and time periods.
UC/CSU (a)

CAS Anatomy and Physiology (H)(P) Year · 10.0 Credits

10th grade students fulfill their Biology Lab Science requirement with Honors
Human Anatomy and Physiology. This course focuses on the different systems of
the body including the cardiovascular, immune, skeletal and muscular systems and
how they have evolved and function together. It includes multiple dissections,
labs, and activities, while keeping the challenging and rigorous curriculum
accessible to 10th grade students. The human body is of high interest to
students and is very relevant to their lives—additionally, this class strength-
ens their foundation for Chemistry in their 11th grade year. UC/CSU (d)

CAS BEST History (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

BEST stands for Berkeley Experiential Senior Transition and its goal is to get
students out into the world. CAS BEST History combines experiential learning
with a rigorous history curriculum, weaving in critical aspects of the college
application process. Subtitled “Social Justice, Social Responsibility and Social
Change,” the course examines the meaning of these terms and students determine
each of our roles in bringing them to bear. Essential Questions: What are the
characteristics of a just society? What are the major problems we confront
today, locally and globally? What is my responsibility to our local community,
to the larger society, to the world? We examine these questions from a
historical, political, economic and sociological lens. The Service Learning
Project, Senior Thesis and Senior Exhibition are the culminating assignments of
the Senior Seminar. Each student begins a service placement in October that
continues through May. The Senior Thesis is based on a topic related to the
service project. In May and June students create and present a Senior Exhibition
which includes oral and media components and details their learning through
their Service Learning Project and their Senior Thesis. UC/CSU (a)

CAS Chemistry (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

What is “stuff” made of? Why are some chemicals dangerous, and others
essential for life? How do you know whether a household product or piece of
technology is safe? How can we generate clean, renewable energy? The answer to
these and many more questions lies in chemistry, the study of matter. Since
much of what we will study cannot be seen with the naked eye, we will spend a
great deal of time gathering evidence and data through experimentation and then
creating models to understand our results. The field of chemistry is the product
of generations of intensely creative thought and experimentation, and it
contains the seeds of the continuing efforts of humankind to understand,
predict, and appreciate the universe in which we live. UC/CSU (d)

CAS World History and Cultures (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

In this course we study some of the major political, economic and social
developments in the world. We begin with a consideration of the state of the
world today and some key global issues, then explore major events and ideas that
have shaped the modern world. These include: the rise of nationalism and
democracy; industrialization and the development of a global, capitalist
economy; colonization and resistance; the world wars and genocide in the 20th
century; and Third World revolutions and movements for self determination and
justice. With the use of broad, open-ended and often provocative central
questions to tie together the many diverse activities of each unit, students
will see how knowledge builds and grows towards tentative conclusions. They will
consider multiple perspectives on events and issues as they develop skills of
historical research and interpretation. They should be able to identify with the
experiences of people from different backgrounds and time periods. UC/CSU (a)

CAS World Literature (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

In this course students examine literature from around the world and write in a
variety of genres to analyze the essential questions. Students are part of a
learning community in which peers work together to make meaning, provide
useful feedback, and push and support each other to reach their potential. They
improve critical reading and writing skills by using the writing process to
deepen understanding of texts and experiences. In the culminating project,
students develop and produce a reflective portfolio that illustrates their
awareness of their growth, strengths and weaknesses as a thinker, reader,
writer, and communicator. UC/CSU (b)

Ceramics (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

This course is an introduction to the basic techniques of hand-building and the
Potter’s Wheel. The emphasis is on both pottery and sculpture. Students will
learn a variety of surface design techniques including colored slips and
glazing. In addition to constructing in clay, students will be introduced to the
Art History and Art History of Ceramics. There is an emphasis on design, craft,
process, and reflection in order to develop the work and the idea within the
work. Second semester we will deepen our study of what was introduced in the
first semester and there will be a focus on personal meaning/ style, design, and
learning more advanced building and decorating methods and techniques. Materials
are provided. UC/CSU (f)

Chemistry (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

This course is a laboratory course that covers concepts of Chemistry based on
the Next Generation Science Standards. This course considers information
necessary for a basic understanding of the chemical behavior of matter. Such
topics as atomic-molecular theory weight relations, the mole concept, the
behavior of gases, solutions, the structure of matter, equilibrium, acid-base
theory, oxidation-reduction reactions and chemical bonding are covered.
Experimentation is stressed and is used to allow students to discover
principles for themselves. Prerequisites: Grades 10-12; Completion of Math 1
and Physics 1. UC/CSU (d)

Community Service: A Sociological Perspective (P)(CTE) Year · 10.0 Credits

A sociological perspective is explored and coupled with internships to introduce
students to professions in health, law, government and education. From October-
May, two class periods a week are devoted to internships, although some take
place at different or additional times. In the classroom, students study
sociological theory, social institutions, the core ideas and controversies in
human service, the range of human service professions, and the introductory
skills required of human services professionals, such as communication skills,
objective observation and reporting, accessing community resources, cultural
competency and professional ethics. Students read important sociological texts
and write college-level essays. Students also engage in college preparatory
activities and develop portfolios that include documentation of their
internships. UC/CSU (g)

Comparative Values and Beliefs (P) Semester · 5.0 Credits

The aim of this course is to analyze the values and beliefs that shape the world
we live in by exploring and reflecting on the values and beliefs that we hold as
individuals. Students will learn how to formulate an evidence-based opinion and
discuss, critique, and debate different worldviews and belief systems. Students
research different religions and explore how worldviews permeate our modern
culture through media, and how those worldviews and belief systems impact
society in various ways. By the end of this course, students will have a basic
knowledge of common philosophical and theological terminology that will allow
them to continue to explore these topics in more depth throughout their life.
Most importantly, they will explore these concepts with an open-minded and
empathetic approach that empowers them to have challenging and productive con-
versations. UC/CSU (g)

Creative Arts (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

This class is an introduction to sewing, sculpture, drawing, printmaking, and
painting techniques. Media and art making possibilities include fabric,
cardboard sculpture, wire sculpture, paper cuts and collage, papier-mâché,
drawing, and printmaking techniques. Students will learn how to use a variety of
tools, including xacto knives, glue guns, hammer and drills, linoleum carving
tools, sewing and embroidery tools, wire-working tools, drawing mediums, and
printmaking equipment. Students will leave this class with a strong foundation
for intermediate and advanced art classes in any media. UC/CSU (f)

Dance Production (H)(P)(PE) Year · 10.0 Credits

The Berkeley High School Dance Production Class functions as a pre-professional
dance company. Advanced dancers, with proficiency in Modern, Ballet, Jazz,
HipHop, and other dance styles are encouraged to audition. This class focuses on
developing stage presence, fostering creative expression, and discovering
choreographic voice. Students create and direct original choreography, working
with peers to see their artistic ideas from inception to fruition. Assignments
are geared towards expanding choreographic techniques and may include
improvisational performance scores, outdoor performance, and interdisciplinary
projects combining text, dance, and music. Once a year, the class has the
opportunity to be directed by a professional guest choreographer. Dancers create
an electronic portfolio demonstrating artistic growth throughout the year.
Rehearsals outside of class time are required. Dance Production performs twice
yearly, over several weekends, all of which are required. At beginning of year,
the teacher will describe requirements for the Honors Option, at which point
student may opt in. This course may be taken as PE or Performing Arts credit.
Prerequisite: Grades 11-12; available by audition only.
Auditions are held the previous February. UC/CSU Honor’s Class option available.
This course fufills UC/CSU (f) - Visual and Performing Arts.

Digital Photography (P)(CTE) Year · 10.0 Credits

This course is designed to introduce students to the graphic capabilities of the
computer as a tool for artistic expression. Students will learn how to use
graphics software (Photoshop and Illustrator) to manipulate images from
digital cameras, scanners, and the Internet. There will be a focus on learning
art fundamentals, composition, craft, and experimentation as they apply to
visual design. Students will explore how technology can be used as a tool in the
making of a wide variety of art forms, such as digital collage, social justice
posters, bookmaking, portraiture, photojournalism, and animation. Students will
be expected to create a digital portfolio, participate in critiques, and exhibit
their work. UC/CSU (f)

Digital Sound Engineering (P)(CTE) Year · 10.0 Credits

Sound Engineering is an introduction to basic MIDI (Musical Instrument Digital
Interface) concepts and techniques. Topics include keyboard programming, sound
modules, sequencing, and electronic music production. Students will gain a
foundational understanding of digital and analog audio systems from an
acoustical, electrical, and signal flow perspective, balancing new
state-of-the-art techniques with an understanding of historical context.
Students will learn basic music theory (rhythm, melody, harmony), how to
identify different musical instruments based on acoustical properties, and how
to transcribe music. They will create melodic and harmonic loops and record
cover songs. Students will also learn about the music industry in the U.S.
Course This knowledge will be reinforced with substantial experiential project
time, using professional equipment as students attain the technical facility
necessary for careers in the digital media realm. There will be an emphasis on
integrated projects with the performing arts and the established Digital Video
pathways. UC/CSU (f)

Dramatic Arts/Acting Workshop (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

Dramatic Arts (Drama 1), introduces students to the fundamentals of theatrical
production. Students learn the basic elements and vocabulary of the theater as
well as how to use these tools to create informal and formal pieces of theater,
from improvisations to short one-act plays. In addition to performance, students
grasp how theater came to be and understand it in its cultural context through
field trips to professional productions and class reading and writing projects.
Students learn the rudiments of how to gauge the aesthetic value of different
theatrical experiences as well as how principles of theater can be used and
applied to problem solving in other contexts. Students learn that the
organizational, leadership, analytical, and time-management skills of the
theater can also be utilized in other disciplines and professions. Dramatic Arts
is designed to acquaint students with various aspects of theatre: acting,
costuming, voice and speech, movement, lighting, directing, and scene design.
Primary stress is on the language skills of listening and speaking through
reading and interpretation of dramatic literature and evaluating performances.
Emphasis is on acting, scene study, and character development. A secondary
emphasis is placed on writing. Students prepare in-class performances. UC/CSU
(f)

Drawing (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

Students will learn the foundational skills needed to draw real world objects.
The course study will focus on line, shape/form, shading, perspective,
positive/negative space, principles of composition, and the elements of design.
Drawing techniques, the use of art vocabulary, exhibitions, critiques, and
portfolio building will be explored. Students will work on developing a personal
style. Media used will be pencils, erasers, charcoal, ink & pen, as well as an
array of different papers. Students will keep up an active sketchbook. UC/CSU
(f)

ELD 1  Year · 10.0 Credits

This is a beginning course for Newcomer students who have not previously studied
English or who have very basic English skills. Students in this course usually
score at a low level 1 on the ELPAC. The course includes vocabulary and language
structures with an emphasis on communicative competence. This course receives
BHS English credit. Enrollment is concurrent in ELD Writing 1.

ELD 2  Year · 10.0 Credits

This course extends the basic skills of ELD 1 in listening comprehension,
speaking/oral communication, reading and writing. Students in this course
usually score at a high level 1 on or low level 2 on the ELPAC and/or are
students who have completed ELD 1 coursework. This course receives BHS English
credit. Enrollment is concurrent in ELD Writing 2.

ELD 3 - SEI Literature of Diversity (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

In this course students continue to develop their listening, speaking, reading
and writing skills in English while also expanding their vocabulary with more
precision and using grammar to communicate effectively. Students in this class
read a wide variety of narrative and expository texts while also being
encouraged to think critically about the world around them and to use academic
language in order to succeed. This course has a strong emphasis on culturally
responsive teaching and offers students multiple opportunities to share about
and be proud of the diverse cultures they bring to the classroom. They also read
short stories and novels from different parts of the world and engage in
literature circles. Students in this course usually score at a high level 2 on
the ELPAC and/or are students who successfully complete ELD 2 coursework. This
course receives BHS English credit. There is concurrent enrollment in ELD 3 -
Expository Writing (P). UC/CSU (b)

ELD 4 - SEI World Literature (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

This course focuses on the enhancement of students’ listening, speaking,
reading, and writing skills in English through the study of ethnically diverse
literature. Class work includes reading and discussion of the literature, many
kinds of writing. Students in this course usually score at a low level 3 on the
ELPAC and/or are students who have successfully completed ELD 3 coursework. At
this level students use literature as a model for learning a wide variety of
good writing techniques, which they incorporate in their own writing. There is
concurrent enrollment in ELD 4 - SEI Composition (P). UC/CSU (b)

ELD Writing 1  Year · 10.0 Credits

This course focuses on integrating reading skills, vocabulary building from the
study of short stories, and oral language development related to the story
content and writing as a follow-up to the story. Students in this course usually
score at a low level 1 on the ELPAC. Students are introduced to the writing
process through writers’ workshop. This course receives BHS English credit.
Enrollment is concurrent in ELD 1.

ELD Writing 2  Year · 10.0 Credits

Taken with ELD 2 , this course focuses on consolidating many of the beginning
skills through extended practice and instruction as students gain the new skills
that are presented at this level. Students in this course usually score at a
high level 1 on or low level 2 on the ELPAC and/or are students who have
completed ELD 1 coursework. Instruction emphasizes interpersonal commu-
nication and academic skills. This course receives BHS English credit. There is
concurrent enrollment in ELD 2.

EMT Basic (CTE) Year · 10.0 Credits

This course is open to both seniors and adults and will take place at the
Berkeley Adult School one evening session per week and one Saturday session
per month. It will instruct students to the level of Emergency Medical
Technician-Basic. The EMT serves as a vital link in the chain of the health care
team. It is recognized that most pre-hospital emergency medical care will be
provided by an Emergency Medical Technician, who needs to know skills necessary
to provide emergency care at a basic life support level with an ambulance ser-
vice or other specialized service. After completion of the program, the student
will be prepared to take the EMT-Basic exam required for national certification.
Topics include CPR, medical terminology, anatomy, advanced life support
interface, scene/patient assessment, communicable diseases, traumatic
emergencies, medical emergencies, obstetric emergencies, pediatrics, geriatrics,
environmental emergencies, and behavior emergencies, plus 10 hours of “ride
along” with the Fire Department or ambulance crew. Integrated throughout the
course are career preparation standards that include basic academic skills,
communication, interpersonal skills, problem solving, workplace safety,
technology and employment literacy. Prerequisites: Fire Science. UC/CSU (g)

Economics (P) Semester · 5.0 Credits

Economics is a one-semester class that reviews both macro and micro economic
principles. In addition, the student reviews some general economic theories and
economic history. The goal of the class is to prepare the student to enter
American society with a general knowledge of how our economic system works and
to place that knowledge in some comparative and historical context. UC/CSU (g)

English 1 (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

Students pursue the year’s essential questions through extensive reading,
writing, research, and discussion. In addition, they examine important issues in
cultures at home and across the globe through a variety of genres- poems, plays,
short stories, novels, nonfiction, and multimedia texts. Students will be
expected to write in a variety of modes--narrative, descriptive, expository,
analytical, and argumentative. This class invites students to explore their
own identity, while learning how to identify with others, and to hear and be
heard in a world of cultural and ideological differences. UC/CSU (b)

Executive leadership  Semester · 5.0 Credits

This course is required of all students elected or appointed to the Exeutive
Team of the executive branch of the Associated Student Body. Students will study
and practice skills such as personal reflection, goal-setting, collaboration,
team management, service in multicultural contexts local to international,
political awareness, constituency representation, ethics, non-violent social
change strategies, and communication from the subtleties of body language to
public speaking. Study and practice will be dynamic. Students will create
products of self or group expression, carry out service projects and civil
activism, plan and execute events, critically analyze their personal and team
development, and be challenged to improve their abilities in communicating
with various audiences. The aim of this course is to help students realize their
potential and responsibility to life-long service and empower them to carry out
leadership roles effectively into the future.

Explorations in Data Science (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

How can we use data to make the best decisions for our own lives? How can we
analyze what’s happening to the world’s natural resources, or examine biases in
popular media? Explorations in Data Science will introduce students to the main
ideas in data science through free tools such as Google Sheets, Python, Data
Commons and Tableau. Students will learn to be data explorers in project-based
units, through which they will develop their understanding of data analysis,
sampling, correlation/causation, bias and uncertainty, probability, modeling
with data, making and evaluating data-based arguments, the power of data in
society, and more! At the end of the course students will have a portfolio of
their data science work to showcase their newly developed abilities.
Prerequisite: Grade 12 and completion of Math 2 with “C” or better required.
(Completion of Math 3 recommended) UC/CSU (c)

Field Studies  Semester · 10.0 Credits

This course allows students to do extensive learning in a community setting
through a supervised internship in which students learn communication, problem
solving, critical thinking, and information technology skills as well as
professional ethics and responsibility while developing career goals. Students
must document a minimum of 60 supervised internship hours.

Fire Science (CTE) Year · 10.0 Credits

This course follows the California Firefighter 1 curriculum and prepares
students for future study of fire science as well as providing them hands on
experience. The fundamentals of the fire fighting equipment, methods of rescue,
emergency procedures and fire department organization. Integrated throughout
the course are career preparation standards which include basic academic skills,
communication, interpersonal skills, problem solving, workplace safety,
technology and employment literacy. Prerequisite: Students will be required to
arrange for their own transportation to a fire station when necessary. Note:
Students are never allowed to drive other students. UC/CSU (g)

French I (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

Students build communicative competence in the language skills (listening,
speaking, reading, and writing) through contextualized vocabulary. Themes
include students’ likes and dislikes, daily schedules, after-school activities,
descriptions of family and friends, vacation travel, eating out, and shopping
for food, clothing, and gifts. Students learn the present indicative, the passé
composé with avoir and être and reflexive verbs. UC/CSU (e)

French II (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

The structures introduced in first year French are prerequisite to second year
French. Vocabulary continues to be contextualized through themes and expressed
both orally and in writing. Reading comprehension develops through longer
readings. Students learn direct and indirect object pronouns. The imperfect
tense is introduced and is contrasted with the passé composé. The future and
conditional tenses are also introduced. Prerequisite: “C” or better in French 1.
UC/CSU (e)

French III (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

Students expand oral skills through presentations and conversations. In
addition, more intensive use of the target language takes place and is expected
during class time. Written skills are honed through the production of more
extensive written work and supported by the study of intermediate level
grammar. A variety of longer and more complex literary pieces are analyzed and
discussed providing students with a wider vocabulary and stronger interpretive
skills which are also meant to improve their productive skills. Prerequisite:
“C” or better in French 2. UC/CSU (e)

French IV (P)(H) Year · 10.0 Credits

During the fourth year, students review the main grammatical points studied in
previous years, read several full literary pieces and work around the IB themes
through a variety of activities. Throughout the year, students work on refining
their writing skills, improving their verbal fluency, and gaining broader
knowledge of francophone cultures and literature. All students that are not
coming from French third year need to be tested to enroll. 11th and 12th grade
BIHS students will be able to take the IB Standard Level (SL) exam at the end of
the year. Prerequisite: “C” or better in French III. UC/CSU (e)

French Seminar (AP)(SL)(HL)(H)(P) Year · 10.0 Credits

This course focuses on advanced conversation, reading, and writing. The course
will include extensive readings, frequent in-class discussions, and regular
writing assignments. Articles on current events will be read, presented, and
analyzed in this class, as well as representative works of French literature,
giving students the ability to communicate effectively in both the everyday
situational settings and in more academic milieus. Writing assignments will be
longer and more complex. Students will be capable of taking the AP French
Language exam and the HL level IB exam the spring of their senior year.
Prerequisite: “C” or better in French IV. UC/CSU (e)

Freshman Seminar Humanities: History (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

This course is divided into two semesters. SEMESTER 1: ETHNIC STUDIES The
semester begins with an examination of identity in which students delve deeper
into their own personal culture and heritage. Who am I? Where do I come from?
How do I fit into the world around us? Next, they broaden their studies to learn
about the experiences and perspectives of people within and beyond the United
States. Students will study race, migration, and immigration and make personal
connections while investigating the history of current political and global
dynamics. SEMESTER 2: SOCIAL LIVING Second semester, we focus on issues directly
facing youth today: healthy decision making, media literacy, substance
awareness, nutrition, sexuality, and gender identity. The semester’s work is
grounded in academic case studies that look at the evolution of these issues
over time. The semester culminates with an evidence based research project on a
current social issue. Both semesters teach the fundamental skills of critical
thinking, listening, speaking, reading, and writing along with historical
research and investigation, source evaluation, and evidence based analysis,
laying the groundwork for future social science coursework. UC/CSU (a)

Fundamentals of Carpentry (CTE) Year · 10.0 Credits

This course covers construction and building design, performance,
sustainability, the study of safety, hand and power tools, planning and design,
applicable mathematics, blueprint reading, trade nomenclature, residential and
commercial construction standards and other specialized skills. This course
includes preparation for a Class B California License. (General Building
Contractor) and the Carpenters Apprenticeship Program. 11th and 12th. Priority
enrollment for 12th grade. UC/CSU (g)

Global History (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

This course covers major themes in modern world history, including the age of
Revolutions, the industrial revolution, colonization and imperialism and its
effects on the colonized, the rise of Communism and Totalitarianism, and the
World Wars. Emphasis is placed on historical thinking skills and historical
perspectives. There is a focus on building historical writing and research
skills. This course is thematically and regionally integrated with the Global
Literature and Comparative Values/ Comparative Economics courses. The course
meets the California State Standards for 10th grade Modern World History. UC/CSU
(a)

Globalization (P) Semester · 5.0 Credits

Globalization is a one semester course paired with Politics and Power. In this
course, students shall specifically identify the variety of challenges facing
humankind in an ever-increasing global environment. By defining the qualities of
leadership and effectiveness in existing decision-making mechanisms, the student
shall draft a more effective decision-making mechanism of world government. A
significant component of this course will be a student simulation of the
decision-making process within the U.N. General Assembly and Security Council.
This project will compliment the student simulated “Model Congress” in Politics
and Power. This course will encourage participation in student government and
service-learning internships. UC/CSU (g)

Government/Economics (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

Government and Economics provides the foundations for “civic literacy” as
described by the California State History-Social Studies Content Standards. The
topics covered in American Government and Economics are introductory in nature,
but provide the foundations for students to understand the workings of our
political and economic systems and therefore to see the possibilities for points
of entry for themselves and others. The idea is to give the students the tools
for critical decision-making about and participation in American society. As
always in CAS, the themes of social justice and social change are central to
everything we study. In order to change the system, we must understand how it
works, that is the goal of this course. UC/CSU (g)

Graphic Design (P)(CTE) Year · 10.0 Credits

This course emphasizes the Principles of Design and the integration of the
Elements of Art. Students are introduced to graphic design as a form of visual
communication through the use of type, image, form, and color. Students will
develop various methods of graphic design through spatial relationships,
typography and imagery. A rigorous framework of reading, writing and design
exercises enable each student to develop a foundation of techniques and skills
applied to assigned projects. Projects include photo manipulation, digital
photography, vector art, typography, logo design, Web design, and various
print package materials. Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign, and Digital SLR
cameras are used. Students will keep design sketch books throughout course.
Students are required to critique their peers and evaluate their own graphic
designs and artwork. The goal is to enable understanding and unique creative
problem solving manifested in each graphic design project and presentation.
UC/CSU (f)

Guitar (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

Students will learn to be proficient-to-advanced guitar players using a variety
of genres (pop, rock, R&B, blues, folk, etc.). Class structure is
student-centered, catering to students’ individual interests, learning style,
and pace. Any level of experience (including no experience) is welcome. Guitars
are provided. UC/CSU (f)

Honors Anatomy and Physiology (H)(P) Year · 10.0 Credits

This is an honors elective course devoted to the in-depth study of the human
body with applications from histology, bacteriology, and chemistry. Major
systems of the human body are stressed, using requisite materials from many of
the animal phyla. Extensive laboratory exercises are provided as well as
collateral examinations of current studies in the human sciences. Individual
student research investigations are encouraged. Advice: Students enrolling in
this course should realize that this is a college level course and may require
more study and preparation time than required in a normal high school course.
Prerequisites: Grades 11-12; Completion of Physics 1, Chemistry/AP Chemistry,
and Biology/AP/IB Biology. Juniors may only enroll if they are concurrently
enrolled in Biology. UC/CSU (d)

Honors Forensic Science (CTE)(H) Year · 10.0 Credits

Advanced Forensic Science is a fourth year rigorous, interdisciplinary science
course preparing students for post-secondary college or career work in the areas
of forensic science and/or the criminal justice system. The course will
emphasize interdisciplinary coursework in anatomy, biochemistry, molecular
biology, chemistry, physics, and earth laboratory sciences. Students will apply
the science and engineering practices to forensic analysis, procedures and
principles of crime scene investigation, physical and trace evidence, and the
law and courtroom procedures from the perspective of the forensic scientist.
This is the capstone course in our Career Technical Education pathway.
Prerequisites: AMPS students will have taken Physics in the 9th Grade (U9),
Biohealth in the 10th Grade, and Chemistry in the 11th Grade.

IB Art History (AP)(SL)(P)(H) Year · 10.0 Credits

IB Art History is an introduction to the history of art produced by human
societies. This production, ranging from painting, sculpture, architecture,
design, photography and applied arts, to installations, conceptual and body
art, has found expression in human cultures from the earliest times, and has
fulfilled a range of functions. In this class we will focus on the methods of
visual and contextual analysis, trying to understand how art historians
attempt to know what an artwork meant to the people who made it, meant to people
who saw it, and continues to mean to us in the present. No previous experience
in a studio art class is required, although students will need a high degree of
commitment to academic work. Open to all sophomores, juniors, and seniors.
Students will be prepared to take the IB SL Art History exam. All students can
take the AP exam if they choose to. UC/CSU (f)

IB Computer Science SL/HL (H)(P)(CTE) Year · 10.0 Credits

This course is normally taken over two years (unless otherwise approved by the
teacher). Basic topics include system fundamentals, planning, computer
organization, hardware, networks, computational thinking, problemsolving and
programming. Advanced topics include abstract data structures, resource
management, and control systems. Students learn about object-oriented
programming using the Java programming language. Students complete a programming
project and a case study. This course may be taken in preparation for the
International Baccalaureate Computer Science examination. Students will have
the option to take the IB SL Computer Science test after one year or the IB HL
Computer Science test in their senior year if they choose to take two years of
the class. UC/CSU (d)

IB Film (SL)(HL)(H)(P) Year · 10.0 Credits

This course is a two year film studies and video production course that may be
taken for one year at SL Level or for two years at either SL or HL level. Year
One students learn the basics of academic film study through formalist film
theory and analysis while looking at short film from around the world. They then
explore genre studies, critical theory as applied to film and film movements and
comparative film studies. Students complete the academic requirements for the
IB Film Assessment. In addition to the academic study of film, Year one students
spend the year exploring film production and production roles through
experiementation, skills work, and video production in the roles of
cinematographer, editor, director, writer, and sound designer. Students explore
working with a range of entry level industry equipment including DSLR and
Mirrorless Cameras, gimbals, rigs, sound recording equipment, and the Adobe
Creative Suite with a focus on Premiere Pro. Student make several films
throughout the year as they hone skills in each area eventually selecting 3
roles to focus on for their portfolio. Additionally, students learn to give and
receive effective critique in a supportive community minded environment. Year
Two students focus primarily on advanced production skills and collaboration
as they work to build out their portfolios and build skills as collaborators in
production. Having selected production roles for their portfolio, students
complete a number of short films focusing on improving their skills in those
roles. Students also work on advanced camera work with Black Magic Cameras,
editing skills including color grading (primary and secondary), masking and
compositing, advanced sound design and foley and post production sound,
character development for screenwriting, and honing their skills as directors. A
large focus of the second semester is a longer collaborative film that students
work in teams to produce, developing their skills as effective collaborators.
Students continue to grow their skills in critique by taking the lead in
critique sessions for both the Year 1 and Year 2 students. Additionally, when
sections are combined Year 2 students support the learning of Year 1 through
skill shares and assisting teaching. This course may be taken in preparation for
the International Baccalaureate Film examination. Students will have the
option to take the IB SL Film examination in one year or two years or the IB HL
Film examination in year two. UC/CSU (f)

IB Mandarin B (SL)(H)(P) Year · 10.0 Credits

Mandarin B SL will enable students to learn the standard form of Chinese
Mandarin (officially named Hanyu in mainland China) for communication in a range
of situations and to receive exposure to the extensive history and
traditions/customs of the Chinese culture. Students will acquire sufficient
vocabulary and knowledge about the structure of the language in order to read
professional texts with understanding, to comprehend conversational Mandarin in
formal and informal settings, and to converse clearly in Mandarin. Students will
be capable of taking the SL level IB exam in the spring of their senior year or
in the spring of their junior year. Prerequisite: “C” or better in Mandarin 3.
UC/CSU (e)

IB Music (SL)(HL)(H)(P) Year · 10.0 Credits

IB Music seeks to personalize unique approaches to musical forms, genres, and
pieces in order to create lifelong connections between music, music-making,
and passions of students. Students will explore a variety of musical
backgrounds, personal and cultural, as they embody three roles: the researcher,
the creator, and the performer. Students develop a portfolio with a range of
musical material to expand their own music-making. The study of music will also
include the application of theory to practical work as students experiment with
music in different local and global contexts. Finally, students will prepare
finished pieces for a public audience to showcase their evolving musical
identity and level of musicianship. HL students will extend their study and
development through the HL-only “contemporary music maker” assessment, a project
that entails taking on all of the musical roles of the IB Music course. This
course is designed to prepare high school musicians for the IB Diploma in Music.
Students will be prepared to take the IB SL Music exam after one year and the IB
HL Music exam after two years. Prerequisites: Consent of teacher, ability to
play at least one instrument (or sing) and ability to read music, working
knowledge of major and minor scales and circle of fifths. UC/CSU (f)

IB Studio Art A (SL)(HL)(H)(P) Year · 10.0 Credits

This Studio Art can be taken for one or two years, and is open to all juniors and
seniors from any learning community at Berkeley High. In this fast-paced,
interdisciplinary art course, students are taught to think like a contemporary
artist; using art-making as a way to research science, history, religion,
psychology, and other subjects. Students will develop an investigation ques-
tions or theme driven by their own interests. They will explore this questions
through research, writing, discussion, performance art, drawing, painting, and
sculpture. Students will create a research workbook, documenting their
thinking in the form of writing, sketches, and images. Each student will also
make between 10-20 artworks in any media they choose and will participate in the
Spring Exhibition. Although students need a high degree of self-motivation to
succeed in this course, you do not have to have highly advanced art skills to
excel. Students will be prepared to take the IB SL Visual Arts exam after one
year and the IB HL Visual Arts exam after two years. Prerequisite: One year of
art or permission of the instructor. UC/CSU (f)

IB-HL English 1 (HL)(H)(P) Year · 10.0 Credits

In the first year of this two-year language and literature course, students will
study a variety of literary and non-literary texts in connection to three big
topics: Power, Politics, and Justice, Culture, Identity and Community, and
Beliefs, Values, and Education. In this course, students zoom in and consider
how an author creates meaning through literary or non-literary features, tech-
niques, and devices. Students will complete a variety of different tasks
including group commentaries, Socratic seminars, formal written responses and
creative projects. The course culminates in a final Individual Oral Commentary
which is a critical examination of two texts connected to a common global issue.
UC/CSU (b)

IB-HL English 2 (HL)(H)(P) Year · 10.0 Credits

In the second year of this two-year language and literature course, students
will study a variety of literary and non-literary texts. First semester students
will study how language develops in specific cultural contexts and shapes
individual and group identity. Students read and discuss a range of authors and
perspectives. Then they select one author’s body of work, craft a line of
inquiry, and write a formal essay analyzing the broad authorial choices. Second
semester students will read and discuss three major literary works, some of them
in translation, in order to understand how attitudes and beliefs are conveyed
through language, structure, style, and technique. By the end of the course,
students will be able to take the IB HL Language and Literature exam, which
consists of two papers: guided textual analysis of two non-literary texts, and a
literary argument essay on two literary works. UC/CSU (b)

IB-HL History of the Americas 1 (HL)(H)(P) Fall · 5.0 Credits

This is a three-semester course for all Berkeley International High School
students (1st semester of 11th grade and two semesters in 12th grade). It
involves a thorough examination of our modern world with an emphasis on the
interaction of people and events; the formation of students’ own opinions of
events; and analysis of the progression of history over time. The primary aim
and focus of the course is to guide students towards independent historical
analysis. Skills emphasized include: primary and secondary source analysis;
formation and completion of independent research; understanding of historical
cause and effect; ability to articulate knowledge and opinions orally and in
writing; synthesis of information, and the ability to use that information to
analyze new information. The junior year utilizes a thematic approach and
focuses on the 20th century and social movements and civil rights in the United
States. UC/CSU (a)

IB-HL History of the Americas 2 (HL)(H)(P) Year · 10.0 Credits

This is a three-semester course for all Berkeley International High School
students (1st semester of 11th grade and two semesters in 12th grade). It
involves a thorough examination of our modern world with an emphasis on the
interaction of people and events; the formation of students’ own opinions of
events; and analysis of the progression of history over time. The primary aim
and focus of the course is to guide students towards independent historical
analysis. Skills emphasized include: primary and secondary source analysis;
formation and completion of independent research; understanding of histori-
cal cause and effect; ability to articulate knowledge and opinions orally and in
writing; synthesis of information; and the ability to use that information to
analyze new information. Students will complete a historical investigation.
This course focuses on the effects of democratic and authoritarian governments
have on people and the relationship between rights and protest. This course
chooses several case studies to investigate in depth. At the end of this course
students may choose to take the IB HL History of the Americas exam or no exam
at all. If students pass this exam they will earn an IB certificate and have the
possibility of earning college credit. UC/CSU (a)

IB-HL Math Analysis and approaches (HL)(H)(P) Year · 10.0 Credits

This second year of a two-year sequence (Advanced Math 3 is the first course)
that covers differential and integral calculus and their applications along with
infinite series (specifically Taylor and Maclaurin). The goal of this course is
to develop analytical and technical skills in students that may be applied in
a variety of academic settings from social science to engineering and physics.
HL Mathematics covers topics with a high degree of mathematical rigor with
analytical proofs of theorems presented where appropriate. Students will apply
topics to real-world problems and problem-solving settings. Students will be
prepared for the IB HL Math Analysis exam in the spring of their senior year.
It is considered an Honors course by the UC/CSU system. A graphing calculator is
required. Prerequisite: Grade 12 and completion of Advanced Math 3 with a “B”
or better. UC/CSU (c)

IB-SL Biology (SL)(H)(P) Year · 10.0 Credits

This course provides students with an in-depth study of biological concepts and
principles. IB-SL Biology includes biochemistry, cell biology, classic genetics,
molecular genetics, biotechnology, and evolution. The course focuses on the
structure and function of living organisms and the interactions between
organisms and their environment. It includes an in-depth study of plants and
animals, including evolutionary relationships, anatomy and physiology, and the
principles of ecology. There is a strong component emphasizing the process of
scientific inquiry. Students will be capable of taking the IB SL Biology exam in
the spring of their junior or senior year. Prerequisite: Completion of Physics 1
and a “C” or better in Chemistry. Students who have no prior high school science
experience or a different high school science experience must meet with the IB
Biology teacher before enrolling in this class. UC/CSU (d)

IB-SL Economics (AP)(SL)(H)(P) Year · 10.0 Credits

IB Economics SL aims to promote awareness of how the impact of economics shapes
global cooperation and decision-making by states as well as individuals. To
achieve this understanding, students are taught economic theories, ideas, and
happenings from the points of view of different individuals, nations, and
cultures in the world economy. The class focuses on how individuals and
governments make decisions using various fiscal and monetary policies to
stabilize and promote economic growth. There is weight given to international
and development economics as application of economic theory. Students can take
the IB SL Economics exam or the AP Macroeconomics test if they choose. UC/CSU
(g)

IB-SL Environmental Systems & Societies (SL)(P) Year · 10.0 Credits

This course provides students with a perspective of the interrelationships
between environments and the societies in which we live. Students will be
asked to examine their own relationship with the environment and the sig-
nificance of the choices they make in their lives on both a local level as well
an international level. Topics included will be the ecosystem, human
populations, conservation, biodiversity, pollution management, and global
warming. The course encourages students to use a holistic perspective in
studying environmental science that includes scientific, ethical, and
socio-political aspects. Students will complete a scientific investigation
project involving data collection and evaluation. Students will be prepared to
take the IB SL Environmental Systems & Societies exam. UC/CSU (d)

IB-SL Math Analysis and approaches (SL)(P) Year · 10.0 Credits

This second year of a two-year sequence (Math 3 is the first course) covers
function analysis, trigonometric functions and graphs, right triangle and
wrapping function trigonometry, including law of sines and cosines, right tri-
angles, trigonometric identities, complex numbers, polar graphing, DeMoivre’s
theorem, the Binomial Theorem, differential and integral calculus, and some
elementary statistics. The goal of this course is to develop analytical and
technical skills in students that may be applied in a variety of academic
settings from social science to engineering and physics. SL Mathematics covers
topics with a high degree of mathematical rigor with analytical proofs of
theorems presented where appropriate. Students will apply topics to real world
problems and problem solving settings. Applied problem sets and projects may
periodically be assigned to prepare students for diploma program assessments.
They will be encouraged to develop an appreciation of the global nature of
mathematics and the contributions that have been made by persons from a variety
of cultures. Students will be capable of taking the IB SL Math Analysis exam in
the spring of their senior year. A graphing calculator is recommended.
Prerequisite: Grade 12 and completion of Math 3 with a “C” or better. UC/CSU (c)

IB-SL Math Applications and Interpretations (SL)(P) Year · 10.0 Credits

This course is open to seniors only and includes the study of circular,
polynomial, exponential, logarithmic, rational, and radical functions, polar
equations and complex numbers, vectors, simple probability and data analysis,
limits, continuity, and simple derivatives. The course develops the skills
needed to cope with the mathematical demands of a technological society with an
emphasis on the application of math to real-life situations. Students are
presumed to have knowledge of linear, quadratic, exponential, and logarithmic
equations, matrix arithmetic, elementary functions, graphing complex numbers,
counting, and probability. They will be required to learn the prerequisite
topics to a greater depth and degree of formality. Students will be able to take
the IB SL Math Applications exam after completion of this course. A graphing
calculator is required for students who are taking the IB test. Prerequisite:
Grade 12 and completion of Math 2 with “C” or better required. (Completion of
Math 3 recommended) UC/CSU (c)

IB-SL Social and Cultural Anthropology (SL)(H)(P) Year · 10.0 Credits

Social and cultural anthropology is the comparative study of culture and human
societies. It explores the general principles of social and cultural life, and
the characteristics of specific societies and cultures. This class will
incorporate both local and global perspectives, and focus on urban and rural
cultures, regional inequalities, and all aspects of today’s world. This course
will focus on issues of race, gender, class, power, inequality, and indigenous
rights. A distinctive feature of this cultural anthropology course is
ethnography, a scientific description of the customs of peoples and cultures.
Students can elect to take the IB SL Social & Cultural Anthropology exam if they
choose. UC/CSU (g)

IB/AP Art History (AP)(H)(P) Year · 10.0 Credits

This course is an introduction to the history of art. The majesty and diversity
of the visual arts are examined in detailed discussions. Students analyze
significant artworks from Classical Greece to Song Dynasty China to Baroque
France to global art in the 21st century in terms of their social and historical
context. We will focus our studies on methods of visual and contextual analysis,
understanding how a particular artwork’s form reveals its meaning and why those
works were made. There will also be regular art-making projects, such as making
paint, to help us understand the role artists’ materials play in the development
of art. No previous experience in a studio art class is required, although
students will need a high degree of commitment to academic work. Open to all
sophomores, juniors, and seniors by permission of the instructor. UC/CSU (g)

Integrated Science (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

This is an introductory science course which combines earth science, cosmology,
ecology, biology, physics, and chemistry. It is recommended for senior students
who wish to take a college preparatory science class but who have not yet earned
a “C” or better in Physics 1, Chemistry, and/or Biology. This course satisfies
one of the two years of science required for graduation. Grade 12 only. UC/CSU
(g)

Introduction to Carpentry (P)(CTE) Year · 10.0 Credits

The Carpentry Pathway will introduce students to career opportunities within the
sector and provide an overview of the planning, design, layout, and technical
drawing interpretation for practical use in woodworking, cabinet-making, and
millworking. Students will be introduced to the different construction processes
in the cabinetmaking, furniture making, and millworking industries. Students
will learn to safely use woodworking tools and machines to produce a quality
furniture project. Students will also be introduced to carpentry through model
design and construction. Safety is stressed throughout the program.

Introduction to Computer Programming (P)(CTE) Year · 10.0 Credits

This course includes an introduction to the Python computer programming
language and an introduction to web programming using HTML, CSS, Javascript, and
JQuery. Students will be able to create sophisticated web sites, gain experience
creating functions, conditionals and loops. They will learn to use structured
data types such as arrays and strings. Optional topics may include Computer
Aided 3D design, 3D printing, robotics or exploring other programming
languages such as Ruby, PHP or Java. UC/CSU (g)

Introduction to Fitness (PE) Year · 10.0 Credits

Introduction to fitness is designed to reach the high school student who may not
be interested in traditional PE activities like sports etc., but would still
like to learn how to live a healthy lifestyle. With that goal in mind we will
learn a variety of exercises so any student completing this course will feel
comfortable entering a gym and getting started on a workout without feeling
intimidated or embarrassed. All workouts will be low to moderate in
intensity. Students will set and work towards personal fitness goals. Upon
completion of this course you will have a solid foundation in resistance
training and be able to create a personalized fitness plan. Dressing in PE
clothing is encouraged, but optional.

Introduction to Journalism (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

Introduction to Journalism is a year-long course that will cover most of the
major elements of professional journalism. We’ll begin by looking at the role
of journalism in our society as well as its historical impact as well as the
basic principles of journalistic law and ethics. The course will cover the
mechanics of news writing, opinions and reviews, sports journalism,
photojournalism, podcasting, design, and an introduction to the elements of
broadcast journalism. While this course is distinct from participation in the
Jacket Newspaper (and involvement in both can occur concurrently), completion of
this course should prepare you for a strong application to join/advance within
the Jacket staff. UC/CSU (g)

Jazz Ensemble (H)(P) Year · 10.0 Credits

The Berkeley High School Jazz Ensemble is one of the top high school jazz groups
in the country. Advanced students on traditional big band instruments are
encouraged to audition. The focus of the class is on increasing skill at jazz
improvisation, and performing advanced big band charts. Skills addressed include
jazz articulation and phrasing, sight reading advanced charts, group blend and
balance, developing hard swinging grooves, comping effectively, and creating
exciting improvised solos over chord changes from the Great American Songbook.
Students are expected to practice a minimum of 3.5 hours/week, and will create
electronic portfolios showing their growth throughout the year. This band
performs frequently - at least 6 concerts and 3 competitive festivals yearly,
all of which are required (calendar handed out the first day of school). The
band tours internationally every other year, and fundraises actively. At
beginning of year, the teacher will describe requirements for the Honors option,
at which point students may opt in. UC/CSU Visual and Performing Arts (f)
requirement. UC/ CSU Honor’s option available. Prerequisites: Completion of Jazz
Lab I or II (on rare occasion this prerequisite may be waived). Admission by
audition only. Audition materials are available at bhsjazz.org on April 15 of
each year. Class size is limited to one or two each of rhythm sections players
(piano, bass, drums, guitar and vibes), 5 trumpets, 5 trombones, and 5 saxes.
UC/CSU (f)

Jazz Lab Band I (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

This class focuses on developing skills necessary for woodwind, brass, string,
and rhythm section players to play jazz with facility. Topics include jazz
theory, history, improvisation, sight reading of typical jazz rhythms, creating
compelling grooves, comping effectively, and ensemble playing technique.
Students are required to participate in 3 concerts per year, and are expected to
practice a minimum of 2.5 hours/week. Prerequisites: At least 7th grade level
ability to read music and play your instrument with good technique. This class
is not for beginners, but is a continuation of middle school music classes.
Admission is by audition, and if there is additional space in the class,
saxophone, trumpet, or trombone players may gain admission by sending in a
recommendation from their middle school music teacher. Audition materials are
available at bhsjazz.org on April 15 of each year. Because this is a performing
ensemble, class size is limited to 2 each of piano/bass/vibes/guitar and drums,
10 woodwinds/strings (saxes, clarinets, flutes, violins, violas), 7 trumpets,
and 7 trombones. UC/CSU (f)

Jazz Lab Band II (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

In this class we continue the work begun in Jazz Lab I, focusing on more
advanced jazz theory, improvising over more complex harmonies, sight reading
more complex passages, creating more compelling grooves, and working to perfect
harder big band arrangements. This band performs frequently—at least 4
concerts and 2 competitive jazz festivals per year, all of which are required
(calendar handed out the first day of school). Students are expected to practice
a minimum of 3 hours/week. Prerequisites: All students must read music and play
their instruments at a 10th grade level or higher. Although satisfactory
completion of Jazz Lab I is preferred, it is possible for advanced students to
audition into Lab II without taking Lab I. Admission is by audition only.
Audition materials are available at bhsjazz.org on April 15. Instrumentation
is limited to 2 each of rhythm section players (piano, guitar, vibes, bass,
drums), 5 trumpets, 4 trombones, and up to 8 saxes. On rare occasions an
advanced player on a non-traditional big band instrument may be granted
admission by permission of the instructor. UC/CSU (f)

LEAP: College and Career Success Seminar (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

LEAP is a 9th grade only elective class wherein students are supported in their
academic, social, and emotional development as they transition to high school.
It combines direct academic support and acceleration with a robust college and
career readiness curriculum centered around a student’s interests and life
goals, a 10-year plan, and college and career readiness pathways. LEAP
instructors also teach one of the core academic classes in the Hive, thereby
increasing the personalization available to LEAP students. UC/CSU (g)

LGBTQIA+ Literature (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

This course introduces students to LGBTQ+ literature and culture. Students will
explore the personal, cultural, and political literature and histories of our
contemporary understandings of gender and sexuality. Through this, students
will engage with a number of questions: what does it mean to be LGBTQ? How does
queerness/ transness intersect with other identities and movements? How do we
define queer/trans literature and culture? This interdisciplinary course will
span multiple genres: novels (including graphic), memoirs, drama, podcasts, oral
histories, zines, film, poetry, visual art, and more. Prerequisite: Open to all
Juniors and Seniors. UC/CSU (b) (g)

Latin I (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

First year Latin is an introduction to the basics of the Latin language,
including grammar, vocabulary, and literature. Students will also study the
history and culture of ancient Rome and the Mediterranean world, as well as
Latin-English derivatives. A primary goal is the successful
comprehension/translation of simple Latin stories from a variety of sources,
including the textbook Latin For Americans. By the end of the first year,
students will be able to read, write, and speak simple coherent Latin about a
variety of topics. Students will be encouraged to participate in the National
Latin Exam, and Junior Classical League events. UC/CSU (e)

Latin II (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

Second year Latin is a continuation of the study of the Latin language,
including grammar, vocabulary, derivatives, literature, and the culture of
Rome and the ancient Mediterranean world. In order to help students reinforce
and build upon their current knowledge of Latin, they will read an increased
quantity and variety of Latin texts. The result will be an improvement in
reading proficiency. Through extensive exposure to appropriatelyadapted
Latin textbook readings, students will gain the skills and confidence necessary
to meet the demands of third and fourth year Latin, including IB and AP.
Prerequisite: Successful completion of Latin I and/or teacher’s permission. UC/CSU (e)

Latin III (P) Fall · 10.0 Credits

The focus of the third year is to enable students to understand, translate and
evaluate various Latin authors, including those represented in the AP and IB
exams. Students will navigate the transition from adapted to unadapted classical
Latin texts. Literary genres include: history, myth, politics and personal
correspondence through letters. Authors include: Petronius, Caesar, Cicero,
Livy, Catullus, and Vergil among others. Students will learn poetic meter and
figures of speech, and will continue to acquire Latin vocabulary and grammatical
structures necessary for reading Classical Latin literature with comprehension
and enjoyment. Students will also write extended essays in Latin on a variety of
subjects. Prerequisite: Successful completion of Latin II and/or teacher’s
permission. UC/CSU (e)

Latinx History (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

Latinx History is a course designed to study the history and influence of
Latinxs upon the United States and beyond. The history is traced from
Pre-Columbian life in the Americas to the present, covering more than 500 years
of history. Some major themes and topics include the complex Chicano-Latino
identity, Manifest Destiny and the Mexican American War, the history of the bor-
der and the displacement and resistance up until the present. The course
promotes critical thinking about race, and other systems of difference that
shape individual and group interactions, American identity, and culture. This
course may be taken by students in grades 11-12 and meets the UC/CSU US History
requirement UC/CSU (a)

Latinx Literature Studies (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

This course explores the stories and experiences of Latinx people around the
world with a focus on local Latinx authors and storytellers. Students will read
and study various texts and genres such as poetry, short stories, fiction,
nonfiction, essays, drama, and film in order to make meaning of the ways in
which society, politics, culture, and intersectionality shape and inform our
identities. Students also will learn the many ways authors use texts as a mode
of expression, art, and activism, and be challenged to use what they learn in
order to dive deeper into their own identity exploration. More so, students will
acquire a deep knowledge and understanding of the historical factors which
have influenced present-day Latinx communities, especially in the Bay Area, and
gain an appreciation for the many contributions Latinx writers, historians,
and artist have made to the world. Open to all Juniors and Seniors. UC/CSU (b)

Law and Social Justice I (P)(CTE) Year · 10.0 Credits

Analyzing, critiquing, and evaluating the criminal justice system, Law and
Social Justice examines the best practices and contemporary issues within law
enforcement, the courts, and prisons. A Career and Technical Education course,
class time also explores central and peripheral careers within the criminal
justice system. Course work embraces work based learning, contextualizing the
issues and careers through field trips, guest speakers, panels, and lecturers.
Prerequisites: Must be a junior and in good standing with other required
coursework. UC/CSU (g)

Law and Social Justice II (P)(CTE) Year · 10.0 Credits

Law II is a “senior seminar” level course, building on the foundational work
completed in Law I. The class investigates deeper into the important and
relevant issues facing the criminal justice system in the United States. Using
field work, class discussion, text analysis, and research, students will explore
the critical components and solutions in policing and law, in addition to
building on career exploration in these areas. Topics for exploration include
racial profiling, adequate representation by counsel in the courts, and
inequities in prison sentencing. Prerequisite: Law and Social Justice I. UC/CSU
(g)

Makerspace Engineering - formerly Mechatronics (CTE) Year · 10.0 Credits

Explore the fascinating world of engineering in this EXT-period course. Designed
in collaboration with leading regional employers (EBMUD, PG&E), students will
gain hands-on experience and delve into how to design and build the
electromechanical systems that shape our daily lives. Students will earn UC/CSU
college preparatory lab science credit. Design build, wire, and program
mechanisms in a project-based learning class. Study electric circuits,
electromagnetism, digital electronics, and learn to use industry standard
electrical lab equipment. Develop Computer-Aided Design (CAD) skills and learn
to build those parts with 3D printers and laser cutters. Learn to program
microcontrollers in C and Python. Classes meet in a purpose-built makerspace at
the Berkeley Adult School. Honors: This credit option is open to 11th and 12th
graders, meets concurrently but involves additional academic tasks like written
reports, research projects, and more complex challenges. Prerequisites: Robotics
Engineering or Computer Science. UC/CSU (d) - physical science

Mandarin Chinese I (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

The beginning level course emphasizes the development of communication skills
and awareness of cultural differences through materials and activities.
Emphasis is placed on listening and speaking skills as well as the initial
development of reading and writing. Students are expected to respond
spontaneously and orally to simple, real life conversational cues. UC/CSU (e)

Mandarin Chinese II (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

Mandarin 2 course reviews the grammar and vocabulary of the introductory course.
Students will demonstrate their ability to express themselves using more complex
structures and increased vocabulary. Students will continue the Chinese grammar
and syntax studies. Students will develop the concepts and skills to integrate
the Chinese language in many other disciplines such as art, music, historical
stories, etc. They will work toward fluency through conversation, oral
presentation, and discussion. Students will continue cultural studies as an
integral part of the course. Prerequisite: “C” or better in Mandarin 1. UC/CSU
(e)

Mandarin Chinese III (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

In this course, students will engage in conversation, provide and obtain
information, and exchange opinions on various topics including current events.
The course will review grammar and vocabulary of the first two-year courses.
Students will demonstrate their ability to express themselves in written and
spoken Mandarin using more complex structures and increased vocabulary
appropriate to the third year. They will work toward oral fluency through
conversation, oral presentation and discussion. Students will continue cultural
studies as an integral part of the course. Prerequisite: “C” or better in
Mandarin 2. UC/CSU (e)

Math 1 (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

This course covers strands from algebra, geometry, and statistics to emphasize
the interconnected nature of mathematics. Specific topics include a deeper
understanding of algebraic manipulation, functions (linear, quadratic, and
exponential), applying linear models to data, using transformational geometry to
establish criteria for congruence, coordinate geometry, and an introduction to
matrices and vectors. In addition, students will be expected to show
proficiency in the Common Core Standards for Mathematical Practice, such as
modeling with mathematics, attending to precision, and persevering in problem
solving. This is the first year in the Math 1, Math 2, Math 3 sequence. This
sequence prepares students for higher level math courses such as AP Calculus
AB, AP Statistics, and IB-SL Math. UC/CSU (c)

Math 2 (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

This course covers strands from algebra, geometry, and statistics. Specific
topics include quadratic functions and conic sections; applying transformational
geometry to quadratics; exploring similarity and right triangle trigonometry;
and an introduction to probability. In addition, students will be expected to
show proficiency in the Common Core Standards for Mathematical Practice such
as constructing viable arguments and critiquing the reasoning of others,
attending to precision, and reasoning abstractly. This is the second year in the
Math 1, Math 2, and Math 3 sequence. This sequence prepares students for
higher-level math courses such as AP Calculus AB, AP Statistics, and IB-SL Math.
Prerequisite: Grade 10-12 and “C” or better in Math 1. UC/CSU (c)

Math 3 (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

This course covers strands from algebra, geometry, and statistics. Specific
topics include deeper work with functions and inverses (including logarithmic,
polynomial, trigonometric, and rational functions), law of sines and cosines,
trigonometric identities, polar graphing, DeMoivre’s Theorem, modeling with
geometry and functions, normal distributions and sampling. In addition, students
will be expected to show proficiency in the Common Core Standards for
Mathematical Practice such as constructing viable arguments and critiquing the
reasoning of others, attending to precision, and reasoning abstractly. This is
the third year in the Math 1, Math 2, Math 3 sequence. A graphing calculator is
recommended. This sequence prepares students for higher level math courses such
as AP Calculus AB, AP Statistics, and IB-SL Math. Prerequisite: “C” or better
in Math 2. UC/CSU (c)

Music Chorus (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

This class emphasizes the fundamentals of vocal technique and performances of a
varied repertoire of choral music. The class typically performs Broadway, rock,
gospel, soul, and art music. Students also have the opportunity to perform as
soloists and in small groups. The chorus performs in two concerts each year (one
fall, one spring). Students do not need to read music in order to enter the
class; they will learn to read as the class progresses. UC/CSU (f)

Orchestra 1 (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

In this entry level class, orchestral string players study and perform string
and full orchestra literature, developing the craftsmanship and mastery
necessary to mold music into a creative expression. Prerequisite: Fundamental
skill level on orchestral string instruments. This class is designed for 9th
grade string players who are not auditioning for Orchestra 3, or any students
10-12 grade string players who want a non-auditioned orchestra class during the
1-6 period day. UC/CSU (f) - Visual and Performing Arts

Orchestra 2 (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

In this intermediate level ensemble, orchestral string players study and perform
string orchestra, full orchestra and chamber literature as appropriate,
developing the craftsmanship and mastery necessary to mold music into a creative
expression. Students are expected to practice a minimum of 2 hours/week outside
of class. Students in this ensemble can expect to have opportunities to per-
form throughout the course, including competitive festivals. Prerequisite:
Intermediate skill level on orchestral string instruments. This class is only
available to 10-12 graders, or 9th graders who are *also* enrolled in another
music or performing arts class during the 1-6 period day. 9th grade musicians
can enroll in Orchestra 1 with no audition, or audition for Orchestra 3. UC/CSU
(f) - Visual and Performing Arts

Orchestra 3 (H)(P) Year · 10.0 Credits

In this auditioned ensemble, upper level orchestral string players study and
perform orchestral and chamber literature as appropriate, developing the
craftsmanship and mastery necessary to mold music into a creative expression.
Students are expected to practice a minimum of 3.5 hours/week outside of class,
and will create electronic portfolios showing their growth throughout the year
through recorded performance and written reflection. Students in this ensemble
can expect to have many opportunities to perform throughout the course,
including competitive festivals and a bi-annual tour. At the beginning of the
year, your teacher will describe the honors option so that students can opt in.
Prerequisite: Audition and teacher consent. UC/CSU (f) - Visual and Performing
Arts UC/CSU Honor’s option available

Personal Finance: Dream, Plan, Execute, Thrive (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

Graduation is close. Are you ready to be out on your own? Personal Finance will
give you the tools to master adulting. Learn how to conquer seemingly impossible
dreams, explore a variety of carrer options including entrepreneurship and
create a cover letter and resume. Once we have defined your dreams and explored
a variety of career paths, you will learn the tools to help make these dreams
a reality. This incliudes creating a budget, researching banks and credit cards,
analyzing student loans and doing your taxes. The third section of this class is
about financial planning, investing and making your money work for you. Learn
how to master the stock market, your investment options and the power of com-
pound interest. Finally, you will learn how to protect your assests through
insurance, identity protection and trusts. In this class you will be expected to
execute all the tools you learn in the class and will create a detailed
financial plan over the course of the year that will allow you to: Dream, Plan,
Execute & Thrive. Open to seniors only. UC/CSU (g)

PE Waiver (PE) Semester · 5.0 Credits

Any student, participating in a state or nationally sponsored competitive
sports activity, including participation in a professional dance company,
can apply to waive out of the Physical Education requirement class at Berkeley
High School. In order to qualify for a PE Waiver, a student
must participate at least five (5) hours a week (or 60 hours
in a semester) in their sport or activity. For a waiver to be
granted, the coach of the activity is required to complete
the documentation needed to show that the student will
meet the state and physical standards on official letterhead 
describing their program. The student that is applying for
a PE Waiver must have the coach complete the appropriate
paperwork (1. A signed PE waiver form, 2. A description
of the activity on company letterhead, 3. Proof of registration) before
the deadline at the beginning of the semester and have the coach email
them to pewaivers@berkeley.net. Coaches must submit proof of completion of
activity at the end of the semester as well. PE waivers submitted
by parents/students will not be accepted. PE Waivers are
available on the BHS website. For questions regarding PE
Waivers please contact pewaivers@berkeley.net.

Physics 1 (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

Physics 1 is a year-long, college preparatory, algebrabased laboratory course
that introduces the fundamental concepts and laws of physics. This course is
based on the Next Generation Science Standards and is designed to help students
construct an understanding of both physics concepts and the mathematical
foundations of the physical world. Students explore these concepts using
laboratory experiences to strengthen problemsolving skills and learn basic
experimental techniques. This inquiry driven program is tightly aligned with the
9th grade Common Core Math 1 course, reinforcing the math concepts covered.
Students will study physics principles through observing, analyzing and
interpreting data, and reporting experimental outcomes, including the
identification of inconsistent results and sources of error. The course surveys
the traditional topics of physics, with emphasis on mechanics, wave phenomena,
electricity, magnetism, and energy. UC/CSU (d) - lab science credit

Politics and Power (P) Semester · 5.0 Credits

Politics and Power is a one semester course paired with Globalization. Students
largely run this course. During the first six weeks, students review, through
lecture and discussion, the inner workings of the U.S. Congress as it wrestles
with contemporary social problems. During this period, the student’s research
important national issues such as nuclear power, health care, the immigration
debate, etc. The remaining twelve weeks are devoted to a simulated U.S. Congress
with students assuming the role of specific U.S. Senators or Representatives.
Using information accumulated during the first six weeks, students write their
own proposed solutions to the nation’s problems and then attempt to convince
other students to vote to help make their proposals law. Once the simulation
begins, class activities (floor sessions, committee meetings, guest speakers,
etc.) are planned and executed by students. The teacher serves as a resource for
finding information and a guide on rules of procedure. Open to juniors and
seniors. UC/CSU (a)

Pop Culture: Inventing Hip Hop (P) Fall · 5.0 Credits

Hip Hop Studies & Black Gold Black Soul (BGBS) are, traditionally, two
separate courses on their own; however, both semester classes are blended
together throughout the year. In this course, students will connect traditional
forms of African expression with the hip hop culture of today. Hip hop is
African expression in its modern iteration. In addition to the study of hip
hop’s history and culture, we will also explore and practice its central
elements—DJ, MC, Breakdance, and Graffiti. Furthermore, students will explore
social, political and economic issues and how they connect to themselves and
their community. We will investigate these topics through creative writing, song
production and mixing, raps, poetry, graffiti, and cyphers. In the end, students
will be able to appreciate the beats, lyrics, and style of hip hop while gaining
a deeper understanding of how hip hop is rooted within a greater African
cultural tradition. UC/CSU (g)

Black Gold, Black Soul: Oral Expressions in African American Culture (P) Spring · 5.0 Credits

Hip Hop Studies & Black Gold Black Soul (BGBS) are, traditionally, two
separate courses on their own; however, both semester classes are blended
together throughout the year. In this course, students will connect traditional
forms of African expression with the hip hop culture of today. Hip hop is
African expression in its modern iteration. In addition to the study of hip
hop’s history and culture, we will also explore and practice its central
elements—DJ, MC, Breakdance, and Graffiti. Furthermore, students will explore
social, political and economic issues and how they connect to themselves and
their community. We will investigate these topics through creative writing, song
production and mixing, raps, poetry, graffiti, and cyphers. In the end, students
will be able to appreciate the beats, lyrics, and style of hip hop while gaining
a deeper understanding of how hip hop is rooted within a greater African
cultural tradition. UC/CSU (g)

Production/Acting  Semester · 5.0 Credits

Students in this class are cast members of the play(s) being performed by
Performing Arts during the semester. Students are also members of the production
team, which includes piblicity, box office, and dramaturgy. Enrollment is
determined after auditions, which are announced in the student bulletin each
semester. Students are not allowed to enroll in this class until the play(s)
have been cast and production team applications approved. This is a seventh
period class. Prerequisite: By audition only.

Psychology (P) Semester · 5.0 Credits

This is a single semester course, offered in the Fall term, and paired with
Sociology/Anthropology in the Spring. In this course, students delve into the
psychological mysteries of human behavior, in all its complexity. Topics
considered include research methods, experimental ethics, neurobiology, states
of consciousness, sensation & perception, learning & memory, human development,
personality theory, psychological abnormalities, and social psychology. The
course goals are simple: 1) to provide students with exposure to a topic
usually only studied at the college level and to help students develop and
refine interand intrapersonal skills and understandings that will facilitate
success (in all its myriad definitions) after high school. Open to juniors and
seniors only. UC/CSU (g)

Publications Jacket (P)(CTE) Year · 10.0 Credits

Students who enroll in Jacket contribute high quality material to this
award-winning bi-monthly publication. The Jacket publishes 16 pages of local
news, commentary, and reviews for the Berkeley High School community. Largely
directed by student editors, Jacket teaches students to meet deadlines, be a
responsible team member, improve their writing/photography/ illustration skills,
and take initiative. Jacket writers, photographers and illustrators receive
training and constant feedback from editors and have the opportunity to pursue
leadership positions if they contribute throughout their high school career.
Students must apply for a staff position as a writer, photographer, or
illustrator. Note: Admission to the Jacket is by application only. Please visit
the Jacket online at www.berkeleyhighjacket.com. UC/CSU (g)

Reading & Writing The Short Story (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

For students who feel that their essay writing skills for college are already in
good shape and want to develop a narrative voice, this fiction writing course
emphasizes: 1) the crucial relationship between reading and writing short
stories and 2) the influence of renowned writers on student writers.
Concentrating on a different genre each marking period, students initially study
stories by the masters and then create their own. The focus is on memoirs and
conventional short stories in the fall, and on mysteries, humorous pieces, and
children’s tales in the spring. Open to seniors only. UC/CSU (b)

Reading and Writing Your Way to a Healthier World: Advanced English and Public Health (P)(H) Year · 10.0 Credits

Reading and Writing Your Way to a Healthier World is a college preparatory grade
12 English course integrated with Health Science and Medical Technology CTE
standards and intended to provide students with an increasing and deepening
knowledge of English Language Arts through the lens of a public health
professional. Through research and study of complex literature and informational
texts, students will develop an understanding of the causes and effects of
public health issues, empowering them with the knowledge and skills to
facilitate change through a variety of roles in the public health field. They
use their reading, writing, speaking and listening skills effectively in order
to evaluate health disparities and facilitate ethical interventions, adapting
communication to audience and purpose. The course culminates with an enhanced
awareness of issues in the healthcare field that empowers students to become
public health leaders and professionals. UC/CSU (b)

Representative leadership  Semester · 2.5 Credits

This course is required of all students elected or appointed to office in the
Student Senate of the legislative branch of the Associated Student Body. Study
and practice will focus on responsible constituency representation, coalition
and consensus building, drafting and presentation of statements to
decision-making bodies, organizing for civil activism, effective meeting strate-
gies, and parliamentary procedures.

Robot Build (CTE) Year · 10.0 Credits

This course is designed to help students acquire the skills needed to actively
participate on the Berkeley High FIRST Robotics team without prior experience.
This is an EXT-period course. Students work with the instructions/mentors and
senior members of the team to develop expertise in areas such as Computer-Aided
Design (CAD), use of machine tools (lathe, mill, saws, CNC equipment, welding,
etc), electronics, and software. The course is very hands-on; students work in
the robotics lab to design and build prototypes and then the actual competition
robot. Completers of this afterschool class earn UC/CSU college preparatory
elective credit and participate in the BHS robotics team during the fall and
spring seasons. Prerequisites: none. UC/CSU (g) - college prep elective

Robotics Engineering (CTE) Year · 10.0 Credits

This introductory class in a hands-on project-based course designed to develop
students’ creativity and technological savvy through the process of designing
building, programming robots and other tools. Through hands-on projects and
collaboration students uncover the magic behind mechanics, electronics and
coding. Explore 3D printing, CAD design metal manufacturing and learn skills
that go beyond the classroom—like problem-solving, teamwork, and out-of-the-box
thinking. This UC/CSU college preparatory science class equips you with the
knowledge and practical expertise to get started in the world of engineering
while earning valuable credits towards your academic journey. Prerequisites:
None. UC/CSU (d) - engineering science

SEI Biology (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

(For ELD 2) This course is a laboratory course that covers concepts of biology
based on the Next Generation Science Standards. It is the second course in the
Multilingual Program science sequence and alternates by year with Chemistry.
Topics include the origin of life, unity and diversity of life, bio-energetics
(cell respiration, photosynthesis, enzyme functions) genetics, evolution,
anatomy and physiology, ecology and global climate change. Emphasis is placed on
understanding science and its role in society. This course also is a Structured
English Immersion course that uses specially designed instructional techniques
to meet the proficiency level of students. UC/CSU (d)

Expository Writing (P)

This course is designed for ninth-grade English Learners who are in mainstream
classes, but have not passed the ELPAC or have not met other reclassification
criteria yet. This is an English class with an emphasis on academic writing and
literacy aimed at empowering students with the acquisition of strong language
skills and effective study habits. This class focuses on developing advanced
reading and writing skills, and building self-confidence and perseverance as a
student. Students in this course will increase their preparedness to read and
understand increasingly difficult texts, and to clearly and confidently
express ideas in class discussions and writing assignments. UC/CSU (b)

SEI Integrated Science (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

(For ELD 1) This is an introductory science course which combines earth science,
cosmology, ecology, biology, physics, and chemistry. It is first in the
Multilingual Program science sequence. The class is composed of 9th-12th grades
and may contain multiple EL levels. This course also is a Structured English
Immersion course that uses specially designed instructional techniques to meet
the proficiency level of students. This course satisfies one of the two years of
science required for graduation. UC/CSU (g)

SEI Math 1 (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

This course covers strands from algebra, geometry, and statistics to emphasize
the interconnected nature of mathematics. Specific topics include a deeper
understanding of algebraic manipulation, functions (linear, quadratic, and
exponential), applying linear models to data, using transformational geometry to
establish criteria for congruence, coordinate geometry, and an introduction to
matrices and vectors. In addition, students will be expected to show
proficiency in the Common Core Standards for Mathematical Practice, such as
modeling with mathematics, attending to precision, and persevering in problem
solving. This course also is a Structured English Immersion course that uses
specially designed instructional techniques to meet the proficiency level of
students. This is the second year in the SEI Math 1 Newcomer, SEI Math 1, SEI
Math 2 sequence. UC/CSU (c)

SEI Math 2 (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

This course covers strands from algebra, geometry, and statistics. Specific
topics include quadratic functions and conic sections; applying transformational
geometry to quadratics; exploring similarity and right triangle trigonometry;
and an introduction to probability. In addition, students will be expected to
show proficiency in the Common Core Standards for Mathematical Practice such
as constructing viable arguments and critiquing the reasoning of others,
attending to precision, and reasoning abstractly. This course also is a
Structured English Immersion course that uses specially designed instructional
techniques to meet the proficiency level of students. This is the third year in
the SEI Math 1 Newcomer, SEI Math 1, SEI Math 2 sequence. Prerequisite: Grade
10-12 and “C” or better in Math 1. UC/CSU (c)

SEI Seminar History (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

(For ELD 1) This course is divided into two semesters. The first semester begins
with an examination of identity in which students delve deeper into their own
personal culture and heritage. Who am I? Where do I come from? How do I fit into
the world around us? Next, they broaden their studies to learn about the experi-
ences and perspectives of people within and beyond the United States. Students
will study race, migration, and immigration and make personal connections while
investigating the history of current political and global dynamics. In the
second semester, we focus on issues directly facing youth today: healthy
decision making, media literacy, substance awareness, nutrition, sexuality, and
gender identity. This semester’s work is grounded in academic case studies that
look at the evolution of these issues over time. The semester culminates with an
evidence based research project on a current social issue. This course is a
Structured English Immersion course that uses specially designed instructional
techniques to meet the proficiency level of students. UC/CSU (a)

SEI World History (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

(For ELD2) This course covers major themes in modern world history with an
exploration of systems of power, resistance to power, and methods of social
change. Topics include the age of Revolutions, industrialization and
globalization, colonization and independence movements, the rise of Communism
and Totalitarianism, and the World Wars the Industrial Revolution, Imperialism,
the rise of Communism, and the World Wars. There is a focus on building
historical thinking, writing and research skills. This course is a Structured
English Immersion course that uses specially designed instructional techniques
to meet the proficiency level of students. US/CSU (a)

Software Engineering: Advanced Topics in Computer Science (CTE) Year · 10.0 Credits

By recommendation or pre assessment. An advanced course open to students who
have passed the AP CS A exam or who have equivalent prior experience, this
course provides an introduction to programming techniques and concepts needed to
build large scale software systems. Topics include use of types, APIs,
functional and and object oriented programming styles, and how to structure
large software systems. Students will also learn how to collaborate using
modern software toolchains including version control, editors and IDEs, build
systems, and package managers. UC/CSU (d) - engineering science

Soccer (PE) Year · 10.0 Credits

This course is designed to give students the opportunity to learn and develop
fundamental and advanced skills and strategies of soccer activities. Students
will be empowered to develop positive behaviors in team activities.

Sociology (P) Semester · 5.0 Credits

This is a single semester course, offered in the Spring term, and paired with
Theoretical Psychology in the Fall. The course focus is on socio-cultural
interpretations of group behavior, both historic and contemporary. Students
will explore various aspects of American society with an eye to expanding
understanding of both who we are, and why we are. Topics include the “socio-
logical imagination”, systems of socialization and acculturalization, social
control, social deviance, the role of race, gender & social class in shaping
social behaviors, and the effect of peer groups, the media, and social con-
formity on social identity. The course goals are to introduce students to
sociological/anthropological methods and perspectives, and to expand students
conceptual thinking skills as they explore two key questions: “who am I, and how
do I fit into society?” Open to juniors and seniors only. UC/CSU (g)

Spanish 1: Spanish in the African Diaspora (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

This course is the equivalent of Spanish I with a focus on Afro-Latino history
and culture. The course covers the Moorish influences on Spain and the Arabic
influences on the Spanish language, Black and Brown social movements, and the
music, culture, and history of the Spanish-speaking African diaspora. Emphasis
is placed on listening and speaking skills as well as the initial development of
reading and writing. No prior knowledge necessary. UC/CSU (e)

Spanish For Native Speakers 2 (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

This course is for Spanish-speaking students who possess a basic to low
intermediate level of Spanish proficiency in reading and writing. The course is
geared toward providing the students literacy tools that support academic
Spanish. It is the goal of this course to set a foundation that prepares and
leads our students into Advanced Placement Spanish courses. Although the primary
emphasis is reading and writing, the students receive instruction and practice
in speaking and listening in order to strengthen and refine these skills.
(Equivalent to Spanish 2) UC/CSU (e)

Spanish For Native Speakers 3 (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

This course is for Spanish-speaking students of all backgrounds. Levels vary
from intermediate to advanced. Incoming 9th graders who wish to take this class
must take a placement test. The course is taught as a reading and writing
seminar in which the students debate current political, socio-economic, and
cultural issues. Students learn to write essays, short-stories, poems; review
Spanish grammar and spelling rules; learn new vocabulary; improve their public
speaking skills through presentations and dialogues; and familiarize with and
explore different aspects of Latin American cultures by engaging in numerous
artistic activities. Prerequisites: “C” or better in Spanish for Native Speakers
2 (P) or through placement testing in the spring. (Equivalent to Spanish 3)
UC/CSU (e)

Spanish I (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

The beginning level course emphasizes the development of communication skills
and awareness of cultural differences through materials and activities.
Emphasis is placed on listening and speaking skills as well as the initial
development of reading and writing. Students are expected to respond orally to
simple, real life conversational cues. No prior knowledge necessary. UC/CSU (e)

Spanish II (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

Spanish 2 builds on the grammar and vocabulary from the introductory course.
Students will demonstrate their ability to express themselves using more complex
structures and increased vocabulary. They will work towards proficiency in the
three modes of communication: interpretive, interpersonal and presentational.
Prerequisite: “C” or better in Spanish I (P) or 2 years with a passing grade in
middle school or Spanish placement exam. UC/CSU (e)

Spanish III (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

This course is taught primarily in Spanish. Students continue to advance on the
proficiency scale in the three modes of communication: Presentational,
Interpretive and Interpersonal. Students are introduced to the products,
practices and perspectives of the Spanish-speaking world. Vocabulary and
grammatical skills are expanded enabling students to express their thoughts and
opinions on a variety of themes. Prerequisite: “C” or better in Spanish 2 (P) or
Spanish placement exam. UC/CSU (e)

Spanish IV (P)(SL) Year · 10.0 Credits

Cultural readings emphasize art, music and selected literary traditions of the
Spanish-speaking world. Students expand their skills in written, spoken and
interpersonal communication in Spanish through the study of authentic short
stories, cultural events and films. Creative expression will be emphasized and
difficult grammatical structures will be reviewed as needed. Freshmen need
permission of department head. 11th and 12th grade BIHS students will be able to
take the IB Standard Level (SL) exam at the end of the year. Prerequisite: “C”
or better in Spanish 3. UC/CSU (e)

Stagecraft Technical Theatre 1/2 (CTE) Year · 10.0 Credits

This Entertainment Technician course introduces and develops students in four
departments of entertainment technician expertise; Rigging, Carpentry, Lighting
and Audio-Video. The course concentrates on fundamental elements of expertise an
entertainment technician must have to succeed and thrive in the broad industry
of presenting Performing Arts in its many forms and will foster connection to
International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees (IATSE Local 107).
Opportunity for Internships. Class meets on Tuesday & Thursday 7th period with
many many hours of evening and weekend “practicum” hours required throughout the
school year supporting BHS performances. UC/CSU (g)

Stagecraft Technical Theatre 3/4 (CTE) Year · 10.0 Credits

The Entertainment Technician course further develops students in four
departments of entertainment technician expertise; Rigging, Carpentry, Lighting
and Audio Video. The course concentrates on fundamental elements of expertise
an entertainment technician must have to succeed and thrive in the broad
industry of presenting Performing Arts in its many forms. Strong emphasis is
placed on safe working practices for all aspects of producing entertainment
presentations. Coursework includes classroom training on concepts and skills and
practical application in an entertainment production environment of those skills
to achieve confidence and mastery. Be able to work as a contributing and
responsive member of a department team using appropriate and effective com-
munication to assist with known active work as well as problem solve new
challenges, understand protocols and procedures for working in live performance
both individually and part of the production team. Opportunity for
Internships. Class meets on Tuesday & Thursday 7th period with many many hours
of evening and weekend “practicum” hours required throughout the school year
supporting BHS performances. Prerequisite: Stagecraft Technical Theater 1/2.
UC/CSU (g)

Team Sports (PE) Year · 10.0 Credits

A traditional Physical Education class that rotates through various team sports.
The Sports Education model will allow students avenues to incorporate fitness
concepts with a focus on mastery of skills and strategies necessary to succeed
in the team sports environment.

Team Sports AM (PE) Year · 10.0 Credits

A traditional Physical Education class that rotates through various team sports.
The Sports Education model will allow students avenues to incorporate fitness
concepts with a focus on mastery of skills and strategies necessary to succeed
in the team sports environment. 0 period class.

The World of Media (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

World of Media is a film class that introduces students to the academic study of
film. Students will gain exposure to several film theories including Formalist
Film theory, genre theory, cultural film theory, and auteur theory. Students
watch, discuss, analyze, write about and complete projects on films in each unit
considering how they can apply visual theory in their own presentation of
ideas. Students will examine many different kinds of film including shorts from
several genres, film noir and neo-noir films, modern films by Black directors or
featuring diverse casts, suspense films, and films by a variety of auteur
directors. Additionally, students apply their theoretical knowledge as they gain
experience with film production by collaborating in groups to write, plan, film
and edit short films. Prerequisite: Grades 11-12. UC/CSU (b)

Theory of Knowledge 1 (H)(P) Spring · 5.0 Credits

Theory of Knowledge, often shortened to TOK, is a central element of BIHS,
encouraging students to think critically about knowledge itself. Having gained
extensive knowledge over their life (both in and out of school), students are
asked to reflect and question the certainty of that knowledge. Students
investigate not only what they know, but also how they know. An essential ques-
tion this semester is, “What are the ways we come to know something?” The class
emphasizes the roles of reason, emotion, intuition, perception, and language in
the acquisition of knowledge. Students begin TOK in the 2nd semester of their
junior year (following the 1st semester of History of the Americas). UC/CSU (g)

Theory of Knowledge 2 (H)(P) Fall · 5.0 Credits

The second semester of Theory of Knowledge (TOK) continues from the first
semester, encouraging students to think critically about knowledge and the ways
education works. Again the class focuses on reflection and discussion. This
semester the class focuses on what we know, rather than how we know it. TOK
examines how subjects such as math, science, and history come to the knowledge
they have. An essential question this semester is, “How reliable is the
knowledge we say we have?” TOK is completed during the 1st semester of the
senior year. Students take American Government in the 2nd semester. UC/CSU (g)

U.S. History (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

Following State guidelines the U.S. History class spends one year on U.S.
History from 1900 to the present. The first several weeks of Academic Choice
U.S. History includes an introduction and background to American History prior
to 1900. The first semester ends with the period just prior to World War II. The
second semester covers the period from World War II to the present. The last 6
weeks include current historic events. Students will continue to develop
academic skills including analysis of primary source material, and DBQs.
UC/CSU (a)

World History (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

This course covers major themes in modern world history with an exploration of
systems of power, resistance to power, and methods of social change. Topics
include the age of Revolutions, industrialization and globalization,
colonization and independence movements, the rise of Communism and
Totalitarianism, and the World Wars the Industrial Revolution, Imperialism, the
rise of Communism, and the World Wars. There is a focus on building historical
thinking, writing and research skills. UC/CSU (a)

World Literature (P) Year · 10.0 Credits

World Literature focuses on building and deepening students’ critical reading
and writing skills. This course develops these skills through multiple genres
including poetry, short story, novels, plays, and non-fiction by authors born
outside the United States. Students will learn more complex literary terms and
analysis including use of basic rhetorical strategies in speaking and writing.
Students will also participate in creative projects that emphasize world
studies. UC/CSU (b)

Yearbook Design & Publishing (P)(CTE) Year · 10.0 Credits

Berkeley High’s Yearbook Design and Publishing course is a year-long course
designed to develop students’ understanding of storytelling, visual art and
design and their respective impacts on the communities in which they serve.
This course, in tandem with learning the marketing and business mechanics that
are necessary for producing a product and publishing a book, will also be
using class time to develop skills specified areas related to interests and job
titles. Chiefly directed by student editors, students learn how to meet
deadlines, be a responsible team member, improve their
writing/photography/design skills, and take initiative. The course starts with a
focus on teaching students about adapting and creating for their target audi-
ence and simulating creativity through a variety of two-dimensional media.
Students will then apply this artistic process to create designs for the
yearbook publication. Finally, they will maintain the integrity of design
through the editing process, while collaborating and communicating with their
colleagues on the yearbook staff. The assignments in the course will demonstrate
a student’s ability to apply the principles of design and effectively
communicate their message. Assignments will also have students process, respond
to, and judge design works using their knowledge of elements of art and the
principles of design and inspire better work. Note: Admission only by applica-
tion for YD&P I, an additional interview is required for those seeking editor
positions as a part of YD&P
